Greetings from Team Ares robotics we are a group 
of 25 undergraduate students from Netaji Subhas  
University of Technology and we are proud to 
present our Rover Chandrashekhar.   
Mechanical: The mechanical team is responsible for designing, fabricating and assembling various components of  
the rover to ensure a lightweight durable structure we use aluminum 6063 T6 for  
every structural component we have installed a 
customized double rocker suspension system with  
four wheels that provides optimal stability and 
extreme traversal capabilities ensuring maximum  
contact. The rover's chassis features an ultimate 
stability provider differential bar that offers  
High ground clearance and minimizes the risk 
of toppling. Additionally, we use polyurethane  
balloon tires these tires have a cushioning effect 
and a skid steering design that provides Superior  
movability on rough terrain. The five degrees 
of freedom articulated manipulator is fabricated  
using laser-cut aluminum linkages it features two 
actuators and DC motors with encoders implemented  
with inverse kinematics, it thus provides a higher 
dexterity and can lift a payload of up to 5 kg.  
The end effector comprises a lead screw-based 
gripper for pitch role and gripping action that  
provides precision and versatility. A Nema 23 
stepper motor is used for a base rotation that  
provides 360-degree rotation with the robotic 
arm. For the extreme retrieval and delivery task  
GNSS coordinates will be entered into the GUI 
followed by the ROS2 system starting a course  
using a global planner to the location, the local planner will make smaller trajectory adjustments  
for object avoidance thereafter with the help of 
our arm's gripper, we can collect and deliver the  
object to the specified location. Electronics: 
Here we present to you our electronic system  
which has been designed with a modular approach 
our system has been divided into six subsystems  
namely propulsion, Arm Control, science control, 
main Processing Unit EPS and communication by  
dividing the system into separate subsystems 
and placing them into individual boxes we  
have made debugging and connections easier and 
faster assembly possible. To drive all of our  
subsystems we have opted for a high-performance 
CPU Jetson Xavier which allows us to integrate  
all the subsystems effectively and ensures Optimal 
Performance. the 26 V lithium-ion battery is the  
power source that drives heavy loads whereas the 
secondary battery is used in the electronic system  
to ensure that the power supply is reliable and 
consistent 11 AWG wires have been used to carry  
high current operations this help us prevent 
any chances of heating and damage to the system.  
To ensure smooth and reliable transmission 
between the Rover and the control station  
we have equipped it with both the 5.8 GHz 
TP-link CPE and the 2.4 GHz Binatone CPE,  
the Binatone CPE with its 12 DBI omnidirectional 
antenna is the perfect choice for transmitting  
command signals with remarkable accuracy 
and speed with a range that extends up to  
2.4 kilometers we can remotely control the Rover 
with ease even in the most challenging terrains,  
to receive real-time video data from the Rover we 
are utilizing the 5.8 GHz TP-link CPE this system  
boasts a large bandwidth allowing for seamless and 
faster communication and streaming. The Rover is  
also equipped with the kill switch which when 
triggered will turn off the propulsion system  
however, the communication system will remain 
operational. Science: The objective of the science  
and research team is to focus on the detection of 
extinct, extant, and no life and to drive it once  
in the field of human space exploration. To detect 
the presence of life on mars, we have employed  
four different biochemical tests on our onboard 
life detection system which are schiff's test,  
Sudan 4 test, Molisch test and Bradford test these 
tests gives us information about the presence  
of proteins, lipids, carbohydrates which are 
essential biomarkers of extraterrestrial life. To  
collect and transport the soil samples we take the help of a science sampling system that comprises  
of an auger-based drill for loosening the soil 
which is then transferred to the blender with the  
help of a blower and a vacuum system thereafter 
a slurry solution is created in the blender which  
is then transferred to the test tubes and cuvettes 
for Chemical Testing. For a more detailed analysis  
of the samples science team is working to create 
a custom UV visible spectrophotometer and have  
created a custom visible spectrophotometer 
which is powered by a high-voltage Supply  
and we have tested the spectrum of a warm white 
LED with the help of it. Along with this a rock  
sample is collected and transferred to a 
container attached to a chassis so that  
it can be brought back to the base station for 
further testing. To study the various parameters  
of planetary habitability, we have integrated our 
Rover with several soil and gas sensors to study  
the subsurface and atmospheric properties, for this 
we have Incorporated our Rover with ph, methane,  
ammonia, moisture, temperature, and atmospheric 
pressure sensors. To study the distribution of  
rocks and minerals on mars we have trained data 
sets of different Rock samples to predict the  
properties of an unknown sample and to study the 
pattern of biosignatures with the help of a CNN  
model for this we have integrated our Rover with 
a microscope which provides us with the images  
of the Rock samples. Software: The GUI shows 
sensor and video data and allows teleoperation  
and autonomous mode toggling always providing 
more detail on course maps and trajectories. The  
Rover uses a ROS2 localization pipeline that 
estimates its position and orientation using  
sensor data from an Intel real sense camera for 
RGB-D data and an IMU for orientation data. The  
pipeline generates a hypothesis for the Rover's position and orientation using a particle filter or algorithm which are  
updated using sensor data, the navigation stack 
then uses the estimated position and orientation  
information to plan paths and avoid obstacles 
the global planner generates a path that avoids  
obstacles by taking into account the rover's 
constraints and environment's characteristics  
while the local planner executes the plan 
in real-time using the Rover sensors to  
track its position and adjust the trajectory if 
necessary. We have used the augmented reality  
library aruco for pose and gate detection which 
enables us to locate and identify markers in  
the global route so that the path-planning 
algorithm can output commands accordingly.
