Hi, we are the GTU Rover team from 
Gebze Technical University in Turkey.  
My name is Emre and I am the team leader. Based 
on the previous experiences from the last year,  
the new rover has been designed and manufactured 
to tackle URC competition tasks. The sub-systems  
were analyzed in simulations and tested on 
each task to ensure all the requirements are  
met. After eight months of hard work, we're 
proud to introduce our next-generation Rover.
 
At the earliest stage of system design, durability 
and reliability have been considered. Sheet  
metal body is mounted on a linked rocker system. 
Aluminium linkage allows the wheels to actively  
conform to the terrain producing a more efficient 
drive. The wheel assembly consists of two main  
parts, the 3D printed rim, and the motor housing 
parts. The pneumatic tires absorb shocks caused  
by falls thus preventing the electronic parts on 
the rover from being damaged and also improve the  
traction. Powerful geared DC motors are used to 
help the rover climb steeper slopes in the extreme  
retrieval and delivery mission. To interact 
with mechanical and software parts of the rover,  
we have developed our next-generation electrical 
system. Custom design PCBs let us easy integration  
and plug the cables. For ensuring the safety 
of the rover, two emergency kill switches  
are installed. The communication system operates 
in the 2.4GHz band along with an omni-directional  
antenna on the rover and a sector antenna at the 
base station. The communication system is capable  
of data and real-time video transmission. In case 
of any connection loss, the back-up module will be  
activated. A 6 degrees of freedom robotic arm was 
developed to have manipulation capabilities. For  
high kinematic reachability, rotational actuators 
are used in all axes. In the first four axes, worm  
gear mechanisms with geared DC motors are used to 
prevent back drive and provide required torques.  
The robot arm works precisely enough to manipulate 
the elements on the panel. A belt-driven  
differential wrist mechanism ensures better motion 
in the 5th and 6th axes. With the high-torque  
joints, the robotic arm is strong enough to 
lift five-kilogram payload at full extension.  
The control system and interface allows to operate 
the arm by inverse kinematics and switch between  
forward kinematics when needed. Spherical wrist 
design enables the Arm to flip the switches and  
type on the keyboard smoothly. You can press on 
the desired buttons and tighten after inserting  
the hex key to the screw. For the arm's motor 
driving, Roboclaw motor drivers with integrated  
PID controllers were chosen. Incremental 
encoders are used to read motor positions.
To perform autonomous navigation mission, the 
ros navigation stack was used. Point cloud data  
from the zed stereo camera is downsampled with 
a voxel grid filter. The obtained cloud is used  
to generate the local map and a 2D lidar 
sensor is used to generate the global map.  
After the maps are created, A* algorithm is 
used to compute global path and to compute  
local trajectory, timed-elastic-band approach is 
implemented. Zed stereo camera and OpenCV library  
are used to be able to approach the gates and 
posts with detection of the ARUCO tags. To pass  
through the gates, we have developed an algorithm 
that can find the position of the middle point of  
the gates in real-time. In this way, we are able 
to give direction to the rover. The interface  
is a web-based React application providing 
mission control and data visualization.  
There are customizable layouts according to the 
mission. They allow remotely monitor system state,  
streaming camera feed, monitoring of the sensors, 
publishing waypoints, robotic arm joint states,  
and control. The science team designs different 
types of life detection analyses and integrates  
them on board. Three separate scoops are 
linearly actuated to collect soil samples without  
cross-contamination. After that, the collected 
samples are transferred through plastic pipes  
to the test tubes in the FTIR spectrometer. We 
prepared our samples to mimic martian soil and  
with them, we optimized ATP and DNA detection 
assays to get the best result. With a custom  
Fourier transform infrared spectrometer, we aim to 
analyze the type of molecular bonds in the sample,  
to detect the presence of biosignature 
molecules. The team aims to identify traces  
on the rock surface and determine if it's 
related to life or a rock's mineralogical  
property. A deep learning-based algorithm 
was developed to have a match between the  
rock images from the cameras and the dataset 
created by the team. A set of sensors were  
integrated to observe the environment and evaluate 
the test results from soil analysis correctly.
