[Reyhan]: Merhaba!
We are GTU Rover Team of Gebze Technical University from Türkiye
Our core rover improvements this year was to ensure both durability and modularity
The modular designs make it easy for the rover  to prepare  for different tasks, making maintenance easier and faster.
We made material and design changes to enhance the balance and maneuverability.
While constantly improving our design and testing processes to ensure optimal performance.
[Enes]: The mission of equipment servicing involves performing various tasks,
including operating sample equipment systems, transferring scientific samples to the lander, and conducting maintenance on the rover.
The sequential tasks begin with assigning a location for the robotic arm to relocate. 
Then, the angles of the six axes of the robotic arm are calculated by a custom inverse kinematic solver to perform the intended movement.  
Using these calculated angles, Roboclaw motor drivers adjust the speed of the DC motors in the axes, 
allowing for accurate movement of the robotic arm.
The transfer of motion between axes is provided by worm gear, differential wrist mechanism, and belt-driven.
Incremental encoders are used to provide the precise feedback necessary for accurate and efficient movement and control.
[Burak]: The extreme delivery mission involves navigating through diverse terrains, 
while completing essential duties as gathering targeted objects and assisting astronauts.
The wheel assembly consists of three main components:
 the pneumatic tires, 3D-printed rim and the motor housing parts.
Pneumatic tires absorb shocks from falls and impacts, preventing damage to electronic components and increasing traction.
A high reduction ratio gearbox added to the DC motor helps the rover climb steeper terrain in challenging competition tasks. 
The rocker suspension system and balance mechanism make it tough and capable of handling obstacles.
 The connection between the drive system and the chassis is formed by aluminum linkage parts.
Versatile antennas on the rover and ground station enable long-distance communication for autonomous driving, 
while the ROS simple drive package allows manual driving of the rover, with speed data compared to encoder data to drive the DC motors.
[Ömer]: Autonomous system has been designed to accurately calculate rover's position and avoid obstacles using the ROS Navigation Stack and various sensors.
The Zed2 stereo camera are used to create a 2D global map and detect obstacles. 
The A* algorithm calculate the most efficient path to the destination, ensuring that the rover could get to the goal as quickly and safely as possible. 
The rover’s position can be accurately calculated through sensor fusion of GPS, encoder sensors, and data from the Zed2 camera.
The magnetometer of Zed2 camera gives the absolute orientation of the rover according to the north magnetic pole.
To approach gates and posts, aruco markers are detected using the Zed2 camera and OpenCV library.
This enabled precise and accurate approach of targets, ensuring task completion.
If the rover is unable to handle a situation, our drone is equipped to take over and detect Aruco markers to ensure that the mission is accomplished successfully.
Task control and data visualisation is managed with our web-based React user interface application.
There are customizable layouts according to the mission.
The rover's position, waypoints, map, planned route, and sensor data and more are visualized in real-time at the base station.
[Beyza]: The aim of the science mission is designing and integrating life detection systems on the rover. 
A robotic arm is used to collect soil samples and claw fingers are sterilized with UV light after each sample to prevent contamination.
 The samples are transferred into an analyze tube containing buffer and filter mechanisms. 
This aims to extract biomolecules from the soil and facilitate control of experimental variables.
The samples are transferred to the FTIR spectrometer for detection biomolecules 
and the fluid chip for ATP detection by bioluminescence reactions.
A range of sensors have been integrated to observe the environment and evaluate the test results obtained from soil analysis accurately
The taken rock images will be examined to determine if they are related to biological or paleontological features.
Finally, the data of all analyzes are transferred to the interface for interpretation.
