Greetings from Istanbul Technical University,
This is Feyza, Team Captain of ITU Rover Team.
 
And this year, we've pushed ourselves 
to create something truly remarkable.
 
The rover's chassis is designed from aluminum 
sigma profiles, making it more durable and  
modular. To overcome obstacles and adapt to 
the terrain, a rocker suspension system with  
a differential rod has been used. Brushless motors 
are used for the movement of the rover and these  
motors are placed in the aluminum hubs of the 
wheels to protect them from external factors.  
The height of the rover from the surface is 
0.3m, including the wheel width is 1m and  
length is 1.1 meters. For precise control, 
a steering mechanism that allows each  
wheel to rotate independently is designed and 
manufactured as an addition to the rover.
 
The Rover is powered by a 24V lithium-ion 
battery which we can access the status by  
an energy monitoring circuit. The main power 
goes to the two-stage switch and the power  
distribution board with fuses. The PDBs regulate 
the required voltage. In the electronics box,  
we have STM32 based custom made circuits 
focusing on on-board communication, led,  
and motor control. The drive system is optimized 
by PID controlled BLDC motor drivers with magnetic  
encoders and hall effect sensors. Units 
handle high-speed serial communication  
with end-to-end protected message packages.
2.4 GHz Wi-Fi modules are used to establish  
long-range communication between the base station 
and the rover. To achieve more effective and  
long-range communication, a directional 
antenna is rotated in accordance with the  
location of the rover. USB and FPV cameras are 
strategically placed around the rover to enhance  
the perception. The simulation created for the 
tasks in the competition is used to test our  
algorithms. Problems can therefore be identified 
in advance. Our new user-centered interface gives  
complete control over the rover during tests.
As well as creating a new robotic arm, this year  
we aim to enhance the old one which uses brushed 
motors and worm gears with cycloidal gearboxes  
and a new gripper to prepare it as a backup 
plan. Also, a complicated 6 degrees of freedom  
new robotic arm that uses BLDC motors to provide 
required torque and accurate control with the use  
of cycloidal gearboxes and belt-driven systems 
instead of worm gears to minimize backlash.  
We also developed and reduced last year's 
cycloidal gearboxes to obtain mini-reducers.  
For torsional stiffness and lightweight, 
carbon fiber tube linkages are adopted.
 
High resolution absolute encoders and custom-made 
BLDC motor drivers provide us with precise PID  
control. The system's communication is done by 
robust CAN FD protocol. Also, effective cable  
management leads to an increase in the flexibility 
and safety. With our modular single line cable  
net we can get ready for missions in seconds.
Our robotic arm is a highly versatile and precise  
robot that can perform a variety of tasks. It uses 
inverse kinematic solutions for control, allowing  
for operation in both cartesian and joint spaces. 
This allows the arm to turn knobs, switch buttons,  
handle tools, place objects in drawers with ease. 
Also, the use of USB cameras makes it easier to  
operate the arm. To ensure optimum performance, 
we tested our robotic arm in both real-life  
scenarios and a simulation environment.
Planning and control are refined for the driving  
system. Our SLAM algorithm creates a 3D map using 
point cloud data obtained with a high frequency  
IMU and LIDAR. Then, this traversability map is 
used for path planning. A custom made rover-base  
differential GNSS solution is used to improve 
positioning. Thanks to our spiral search and  
newly developed algorithm, AR Tags are detected 
from a long distance before the rover approaches.  
A concurrent state machine actively checks 
the rover's status and sensors to maintain  
the autonomous mission of the rover.
In this year's science system, we used  
a revolving system with fixed shovel tips for 
quick soil collection. In addition to being fast,  
this system prevents contamination thanks to its 
3 separate shovels. With the customized shovels,  
we can take the desired amount of soil and dump it 
wherever we want. At the back, a separate moving  
system carries our sample containers. This system 
goes back and forth and rotates around itself,  
allowing us to choose the container where 
we will pour the soil we collect.
 
For life detection analysis, proteins 
which are the building block of cells are  
examined with the Bradford reagent. Aldehydes 
involved in metabolic processes are studied  
with the help of the Schiff's reagent. 
Besides, two different types of biosensors  
are prepared to detect glucose, which 
is the energizing molecule. While the  
chitosan cryogel-based biosensor is selected 
for its high binding capacity and stability;  
the chitosan-whatman paper 
based one is preferred for 
 
speed and simplicity.
Unlike last year's plan,  
the 532nm Raman spectrometer is redesigned 
with optical lenses to get more efficiency in  
detecting lipids in soil samples, which 
are strong indicators of life. Also,  
we are designing our new visible-near infrared 
spectrometer with brand-new components to  
examine a larger range of minerals to 
interpret the origin of the soil.
 
For the detection of mineral size, types and 
the composition of the soil is identified  
by a artificial intelligence with a calibrated 
microscope. Furthermore atmospheric sensors such  
as pressure, humidity, temperature, methane, 
carbondioxide and ammonia sensors are used  
to study geological conditions along 
with the moisture and temperature for  
the soil. After these processes we use all this 
information to evaluate the habitability of Mars.
