Greetings from Istanbul technical university,
I am Burak team captain of the ITU Rover Team
and here is our sixth-generation rover.
Two different chassis design used in this
year’s rover. 2 mm aluminum sheet metal
body for easy production and carbon-fiber
chassis for solidity and lightness.
Differential bar and rocker suspension mechanism
have chosen for raising field performance.
The height of the rover from surface is 0.3m,
including wheels the width is 1m and length
is 1.1m.
Steering mechanism is developed for superior
movement capability.
It provides us to steer every wheel independently
and accurate control for rover’s motion.
Brushless DC motors has been installed on
each wheel’s hub for better protection from
outer effects.
Airless tiers that manufactured from TPU by
3D printing are designed more dished to reduce
contact with ground.
In this year’s rover, we used STM32 microcontroller
and VESC electric speed controllers on thrusting.
As a result of using brushless DC motors with
Hall Effect sensors, we can control the thrusting
system more precisely; get important data
such as RPM, power, and use it on the PID
controller design.
For the steering, TALON SRX motor drivers
and magnetic absolute encoders are utilized.
In the electronics box, 4 custom made PCB’s
are designed, and implemented for the power
and data distribution throughout the system
to make the system as organized and modular
as possible.
Connection between microcontrollers and onboard
computers is built with serial communication.
Long-range communication between the ground
station and the rover is established using
2.4 GHz RF modules.
Directional antenna is rotated according to
the location of the rover for achieving more
robust and longer range communication.
To have a better perception on the rover,
IP and FPV cameras are located on the different
spots.
Our algorithms are tested in the simulation
which designed for the competition tasks.
In this way, problems can be observed in advance.
Complete control on the rover is provided
during tests thanks to our new user-oriented
interface.
Our rover's 6-axis robotic arm is designed
with a worm gear and cycloidal gearboxes mechanism
that will provide the required torque and
full rotation for each axis.
The structural parts of the robotic arm are
made of carbon fiber and aluminum to achieve
maximum strength.
The two-fingered adaptive gripper, consisting
of PETG and aluminum parts, allows you to
easily hold any shape of an object with the
help of TPU pads used in the fingers.
7 brushed DC motors are used to drive the
robotic arm and gripper.
Talon SRX motor drivers for each axis and
precise encoders helps us to achieve accurate
position control.
Communication of the system is done via CAN-Bus
which is a robust protocol.
Additionally, in order to provide flexibility
and safety, we took extra care to cable management.
This year we made our robotic arm even more
fail proof by improving the interface between
hardware and software.
For teleoperation, besides integrating industry-proven
solutions into our system, we also developed
our own inverse kinematics solutions as an
alternative.
As a result, we are capable of controlling
the robotic manipulator precisely in both
cartesian space and joint space.
This way, optimum motion can be obtained for
various tasks.
In addition, we developed each of our systems
by repeatedly testing them in simulation and
performing drill missions in real-life.
Steering system is configured for autonomous
navigation and teleoperation.
With the SLAM algorithm, a costmap is obtained
using the 3D map constructed from the accumulated
point cloud data.
While orientation of the rover is consolidated
by 2 IMUs, localization is improved using
one GPS at the base station and another on
the rover.
By adding plug-ins and customizing the navigation
stack, the autonomous movement is stabilized.
AR Tags are found by a spiral searching algorithm.
Tags are detected by the ArUco package in
short range, and YOLO is used for extending
the detection range.
A concurrent state machine system is implemented
in order to control the status of the rover
and the sensors while simultaneously ensuring
the autonomous navigation of the rover.
In this new science system, we set out with
the experience we gained from past years.
While the soiling and transportation process
was simplified and prevented from contamination
with the drill mechanism, a complex system
has been developed for the transformation
and filtration of required chemicals.
Also, the microscope was added to the spectrometer
mechanism for increasing the accuracy of the
result of the examination.
DC and stepper motors are used together in
the system that aims to increase strength
by using Petg material.
After the samples are taken to obtain the
organic molecules, soil is filtered from Whatman
paper.
Schiff’s and Bradford reagents were used
to detect the aldehyde and protein molecules.
These assays only take a few minutes, and
results are detected by IRSL.
Glucose biosensor was produced to detect the
glucose which is the main energy source for
microbial life.
Chitosan cryogel was produced in our laboratory
and analyzed by SEM.
GOx and POx enzymes were immobilized on the
cryogel by cross-linking.
Artificial intelligence algorithms were used
to detect the rock samples.
Rocks were photographed then examined with
a microscope and a percentage of similarity
was obtained.
Atmospheric gas, humidity and temperature
sensors were used to measure the habitability
of the environment and they were compared
with the reference datas from Earth and Mars
atmosphere.
Raman and Visible/NIR spectrometers are designed
to identify the rock and soil samples.
In the Raman spectrometer a 532 nm monochromatic
light source is used.
Limit switch was used to confirm the angle
of the mirror which leads us to find the Raman
Peaks in the spectrum which scanned by the
photodiode.
In the Visible spectrometer a polychromator
light source is used and we prepared our own
database.
