Hello, we are team MIST Mongol Barota from 
Bangladesh and this year we are back with  
our highly sophisticated rover, Phoenix 2.0. 
Welcome to our 2022 System Acceptance Review. 
After a huge success last year, 
this year we have a bigger and  
assorted team of over 60 students who 
have worked extremely hard to make  
Phoenix 2.0 significantly different 
and better than our rover last year.
Previously, Phoenix weighed 54 kg whereas 
Phoenix 2.0 weighs 50 kg in total and 42kg  
in a single mission. The full mechanism of Phoenix 
2.0 has three parts - the body, arm, and science. 
Instead of ball joints, this year we used 
bevel gear which keeps the whole system  
compact preventing wastage of space.
Our rocker-bogie is made of stainless  
steel and the ladder structure has been used for 
higher strength and stability of the rocker arm.
Our wheel is made of 3D printed 
honeycomb structured tires using  
thermoplastic polyurethane material 
and custom-made rim using stainless  
steel that uses a suspension 
mechanism for shock absorbing. 
The 2 Degrees of Freedom (DOF) wheel 
provides stability and flexibility  
in rotational and steering movement.
Stepper motor is used along with the  
dc motor to steer each wheel independently 
which helps to rotate the rover 360 degrees.
Phoenix 2.0 has 5 degrees of freedom arm with two 
links this year Aluminium and Carbon fiber have  
been used for lighter weight and easier movement.
Spur gear mechanism with a gear ratio of 5:1 has  
been used in the arm base for 
higher torque and viability. 
Two linear actuators and four steppers have 
been used in the arm; one in the base and  
the other three in the end effector that 
uses a differential bevel gear mechanism. 
The arm is strong enough to tow and lift a 
payload over 8 kg in addition to opening a  
drawer and inserting cache in it, the arm is 
also capable of performing other sophisticated  
tasks like handling USB, push switch, 
tightening of a screw, joystick control,  
knob and flip switch and typing on a keyboard.
This year, our end effector uses a worm gear  
mechanism to grip objects up to 5.12 
inches wide with strength and precision.
This year in our autonomous 
navigation we improved localization,  
computer vision and navigation capabilities 
to ensure smoother traversal than last year. 
Kalman filter fuses the data from the onboard 
GPS and the integrated IMU in ZED provides  
proper positioning to gain accurate GNSS.
A custom script publishes the sensor data  
in ROS to navigate to the visual markers.
Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) using  
the combined data from depth-sensing along 
with the LIDAR and point clouds can detect  
and avoid any obstacles to the waypoints.
2D Pose Estimation and Multimarker Detection  
are combinedly used to identify AR 
Tags up to 5-10 meters distance. 
Three LEDs have been integrated in the rover for 
indicating successful arrival to the destination.
The prime communication system of Phoenix 
2.0 uses a 2.4 GHz omnidirectional antenna  
in both the rover and base station. 
The effective range of the communication 
module has been tested to be 1 kilometer  
and four cameras have been used along with 
two FPV (First Person View) cameras of 5 GHz.
The main focus of the electrical subsystems is the  
control of the rover and integration of 
core electronics and embedded systems. 
Enhanced modularity is implemented using various 
custom PCBs and SolidWorks Electrical 3D,  
facilitating simulation of real-time 
electrical wiring of the rover. 
Besides allowing 120 minutes of operation, 
Lithium Polymer (LiPo) batteries also  
power a modular electronic architecture.
Moreover, our custom power distribution  
board also prevents issues such as mismatched 
battery voltages and subsystem level shorts. 
For emergency stop of the rover, 
we also have a kill switch.
In order to minimize complexity, the 5-DOF 
(Degrees Of Freedom) arm uses a specialized  
gripper to collect soil samples.
A testing chamber has been mounted  
on the back of the rover to detect 
biomolecules from rock and soil samples. 
The samples are each deposited 
into three isolated beakers for the  
detection of biomolecules with chemical tests.
This involves carbohydrate using Benedict's  
Solution, Protein using new Ninhydrin 
solution and Ammonia using litmus strips. 
The results are streamed back to the base station 
for immediate evaluation to feedback as input  
into our customized algorithm and 
the samples are classified into  
Extinct, Extant and No Presence of Life.
To analyze the rock sample, a USB 
microscope with the addition of  
MVOC sensors have been mounted with the end 
effector to analyze and detect the presence  
of living microorganisms from rock samples.
A neural network model with Transfer Learning  
has been made with our custom 
dataset of 998 rock samples,  
predicting the category and identifying 
fossilized samples with 97.3% accuracy. 
Moreover, a munsell chart is used 
to detect the level of total organic  
carbon present in rock samples.
A sample acquisition and analysis  
process is being tested on a course 
with marked soil and rock samples.
As the final months are here, we plan to fully 
focus on practicing a series of mock missions  
under the same constraints that 
we expect at the competition. 
Different conferences and workshops are also being 
hosted as a part of our educational outreach plan. 
We believe in our capability and effort. 
On behalf of MIST Mongol Barota, 
thank you for your consideration.
See you in the finals.
