Hello. We are Team MIST 
Mongol Barota from Bangladesh, 
ready to jump into the 
University Rover Challenge 2023 
with our highly advanced rover - PHOENIX 3.0. 
Welcome to our System 
Acceptance Review for URC 2023.
This year we have re-engineered 
our previous rover PHOENIX 2.0 
to accede to the provided competition missions,  
incorporating newer technologies with 
a workforce of more than 50 students.
The core architecture of PHOENIX 
3.0 is divided into three modules -
Body, Arm, and Science.
The rover's body consists of a modular 
chassis made of stainless steel 
and rocker-bogie suspension with a 
bevel gear differential mechanism 
to withstand both frontal and rear impacts 
during its venture into the rocky terrains.
The mobility system of PHOENIX 3.0 is 
implemented using a steerable wheel system 
composed of customized 3D 
printed Honeycomb-structured,  
non-pneumatic wheels made of 
thermoplastic polyurethane material. 
The 2 Degrees of Freedom (DOF) wheels are 
capable of rotational and steering movement, 
allowing comfortable movement through 
tight spaces or along straight lines.
Our PHOENIX 3.0 has a 5 Degrees 
of Freedom (DOF) articulated arm 
with the capability of performing a wide range of  
dexterity tasks given in the 
equipment servicing mission.
Keeping in mind the weight 
issues of our previous rover, 
this year we have used a chain-driven base 
instead of the belt-driven base in the arm gripper 
and implemented four carbon fiber 
links instead of two Aluminum links 
due to its high strength-to-weight ratio.
Moreover, to facilitate 
pitching and rolling motion, 
we have used a bevel gear mechanism 
to actuate the end-effector grippers 
and a worm gear mechanism to grip objects up to 
5.12 inches wide with strength and precision.
Our rover arm is not only capable of a 
strict grip and easy maneuverability, 
but also of performing equipment 
servicing tasks such as 
lifting payloads weighing more 
than 8 Kilograms, opening drawers, 
pushing buttons, switches, and knobs.
The components of our rover are 
controlled by new iterations of  
our customized PCBs in the electrical subsystem.
The chassis houses the modular 
layout of the electrical components 
which supplies ample power to the 
core system using LiPo batteries.
 
Other electrical components 
integrated into the rover  
include sensors to detect system 
temperature and battery voltage.
In the event of operational issues,  
we have included a visible kill switch 
for emergency shutdown of the rover, 
as well as a fail-safe protocol 
for remote deactivation.
For autonomous navigation missions,  
we have taken several steps to ensure 
the precise orientation of our rover.
This year we have used 
odometry and computer vision 
for strategic path planning 
and smoother traversal.
For improved navigation and 
localization, we have integrated  
10-DOF IMU sensors with the GPS module
which provides reliable GPS streams.
The data received by onboard IMU sensors 
and GPS are fused by Kalman filter, 
providing higher precision and accuracy 
of the rover's actual location.
A custom script publishes the sensor data in ROS
to navigate to the visual markers.
PHOENIX 3.0 uses LiDAR and ZED2 cameras 
controlled through Jetson Xavier NX.
For identification of AR Tags 
up to 5-10 meter distance, 
our rover uses a combination of 2D Pose 
Estimation and Multimarker Detection.
Three LEDs have been integrated into the rover 
to indicate successful arrival to the 
destination or completion of a mission.
In order to ensure optimal communication 
between the rover and the base station, 
we have integrated multiple distinct channels for 
control, backup control, and data transmission.
Our primary control channel 
operates on a 2.4 GHz band, 
with a secondary 900 MHz 
channel serving as a backup.
To facilitate data transmission,
we have allocated two independent channels  
of 5 GHz and 1.2 GHz for the FPV cameras,
while an additional three cameras for  
science or sensory data feedback 
utilize a common 5 GHz channel.
This time, to collect soil samples 
we have developed a suction module 
that makes this task faster, more efficient, 
and more precise than ever before.
On the rear of the rover, there 
is a testing chamber that is  
equipped to identify biomolecules
found in samples of rocks and soil.
The suction module is composed of an actuator
and three pumps that work  
in perfect synchronization
to extract soil samples from the ground.
A drill is also attached in case 
of hard soil samples to soften it. 
The suctioned samples are 
deposited through separate funnels 
to the beakers attached to the customized 
beaker tray in the testing chamber 
for each of the corresponding soil 
tests to avoid cross-contamination.
A heating pad is also used 
to provide heat to the beaker 
for the necessary tests.
The biomolecules in the sample are 
identified through multiple chemical tests, 
including Benedict's Solution 
for carbohydrate test, 
Biuret test for protein detection,
and ion test for ammonia detection.
And we are also working on the 
Luciferin test to detect ATP.
 
  
The outcomes are instantly monitored through 
the base station for prompt assessment 
and fed into our personalized algorithm.
Based on predetermined criteria,
the samples are categorized as 
"Extinct," "Extant," or "No presence of life."
Using an USB microscope with MVOC sensors,
we can detect even the smallest signs of life.
Our custom database of nearly 1000 rock samples
and a neural network model with Transfer Learning 
has allowed us to predict and 
identify fossilized samples 
with 97.3% accuracy.
We also used a Munsell chart 
to estimate the levels of 
organic carbons in the rocks.
This year, we will expand our analysis 
to a wider range of rock 
samples compared to last year, 
which will give us a larger 
dataset with newer samples.
As a part of our educational outreach plan,
we have hosted several workshops 
and plan to host more seminars and conferences
in the near future.
As the finals approach, we plan to 
maintain our rover serviceability 
by undergoing several mock missions 
as we expect in the main competition.
We, MIST Mongol Barota, are confident 
in our capability and effort.
Thank you for your consideration.
MIST Mongol Barota wishes good luck 
to all participating teams.
Thank you.
