G'day, we're Monash Nova Rover, a student team 
from Monash University based in Melbourne,  
Australia, comprised of 89 students from 
engineering, IT, design, science and  
commerce backgrounds. The chassis body has been 
re-designed to reduce core weight and accommodate  
larger arm and science payloads. The new body 
increases space for the electrical system,  
now featuring board-to-board connectors to 
allow modular expandability. At the core of  
the new electrical system is our custom, compact 
Jetson TX2 carrier board. The board hosts three  
USB 3.0 ports and has vertical connectors to 
improve accessibility. With two years of proven  
application, our custom CAN bus motor drivers 
allow for effortless PID control of all motors.  
The new battery unit retains the eight-cell 
LIFePo structure, with a new e-stop that  
integrates a coil-activated line contactor 
to reliability disconnect rover power.  
Cell voltage and current is continuously 
monitored and displayed on the integrated LCD.  
Our entire code base has been re-designed using 
ROS 2, for improved performance and structure. The  
new GUI allows operators to view status data from 
the rover and control rover functionality. The  
GStreamer framework provides intuitive control of 
up to eight simultaneous camera views. New Bullet  
AC radios can operate in both 2.4 and 5 GHz modes, 
enabling high-bandwidth and reliable signal,  
mounted on a collapsible mast to 
meet the new height restrictions.  
The upgraded robotic arm features two detachable 
end effectors to meet the unique requirements  
of the the Equipment Servicing and Extreme 
Retrieval missions. The two finger end effector  
includes a linear actuator to accurately press 
buttons and Hex key to easily tighten screws.  
The first three joints of the arm comprise 
of upgraded custom cycloidal gearboxes  
to improve robustness and reduce backlash with 
tubular linkages providing torsional rigidity.  
The new wrist consists of a spherical parallel 
manipulator that halves the total load experienced  
by the lower joints compared to the 2021 design, 
by reducing mass and improving load distribution.  
Its rigidity improves the positional accuracy of 
the end effector allowing for fine control during  
operation. A new modular arm software stack allows 
for features to be toggled on and off, including  
inverse kinematics, joint limits and collision 
detection, for intuitive control of the arm.  
To ensure the rover can traverse the 
Extreme Retrieval terrain, we have  
developed and tested an extensive new range of 
single-piece 3D printed wheels. The internal  
spoke geometry has been modified to reduce 
mass and improve damping on solid obstacles.  
New curved grousers that match the turning radius 
have been integrated into the corner wheels  
to reduce turning resistance whilst improving 
grip on loose gravel surfaces. Each wheel has  
independent PID velocity control to aid with 
slope and obstacle traversal. A 360 degree  
gimbal camera has been mounted on the mast to 
provide the operator a wide range of perspectives.  
Along with the improved robustness of the arm 
and its joints, a three finger end effector  
creates an encompassing grip that can securely 
grasp objects of various sizes and weights.  
Finally, returning is our proven four-bar bogie 
suspension system to aid in obstacle traversal.  
The Autonomous system has been designed for 
precise rover pose and robust dynamic obstacle  
avoidance. The new differential GPS system 
provides centimetre-accurate local positioning.  
Combined with orientation data from the six-axis 
IMU, magnetometer and precise wheel odometry,  
we obtain an accurate six-degree of freedom pose 
through sensor fusion. A stereo camera generates  
point-clouds which are transformed into a global 
occupancy map where 3D path planning algorithms  
can continually plan safe routes. The rover’s map, 
planned path and pose are visualised in real time  
in the base station. The local position of AR tags 
are tracked to aid precise checkpoint approach,  
with a spiral search strategy to find tags 
where approximate coordinates are given.  
A robust control loop integrates all the core 
components while monitoring for sensor failures.  
Finally, autonomous operating 
modes and stage completion are  
signalled with the integrated custom LED strip. 
The scientific payload has seen major improvements 
in key areas. Our actuating platform and scoops  
have been redesigned to improve stability and ease 
of alignment when collecting four unique samples.  
New, custom designed peristaltic pumps 
are able to reliably process and deliver  
consistent quantities of samples to 
our purpose built photo-spectrometer.  
Chemical assays will consist of Fluorescein 
Diacetate and BCA to detect protein and enzymes,  
indicating the presence of extinct or extant life. 
Results will be quickly generated, with automated  
data interpretation from the spectrometer to the 
user interface. Our microscope provides detailed  
views of rock samples, which when coupled 
with environmental sensors provide supporting  
evidence for life from the local environment.
Microscope images will be displayed alongside  
our task specific geological database 
to aid geological identification.
