G'day, welcome to Monash Nova Rover. We're a student team based at Monash
University in Melbourne, Australia
comprised of 60 students from
engineering, science, IT, design and
commerce backgrounds. This year we've
completely redesigned our chassis body
to improve accessibility and minimize
weight. At only 36 kilograms it provides
rapid access to critical systems and can
alternate between arm and science
payloads within 10 minutes. Our novel
double-bogey suspension features an
interchangeable differential bar
providing stability on any incline with
any payload. In-house designed and
fabricated CAN bus motor drivers operate
the wheels and arm joints, with a modular
design and high current capacity. The
new distribution board contains six
motor drivers, condensing the drive
system while allowing for in-situ
repair and diagnostics. An updated eight
cell LiFePO battery unit monitors cell
voltages, current and temperature, with
improved safety shut down switch. A new
GUI features a cluster of G-streamer
video feeds which can be changed on the
fly, providing the operator with critical
information from the rover. 5.8 gigahertz
and 900 megahertz radios provide large
bandwidth and lossless control enabling
a reliable connection over obstacles and
distances of one kilometer.
To overcome the difficult terrain in 
extreme retrieval the chassis team has
redesigned the drive system. Our flexible
custom 3D printed wheels improve
traction and dampening. As a single
component they reduce complexity, are
light weight and are quickly
interchangeable. In 2019, the gearboxes
were an area of weakness, and so this
year we've upgraded to stronger and more
reliable VEX pro models. We've developed
a new gimbal camera allowing for
improved and complete control over our
field of view supporting the rapid
identification and tracking of objects
during competition tasks. New custom
cycloidal gear boxes driven by the
high-powered Maxon motors now enable the
robotic arm to have very low backlash
and high gear reduction in a small and
lightweight package. The new gearboxes
provide full rotary range of motion at
each joint, granting longer reach and
easier manipulation of objects. The
rotary joints allow the arm to be safely
stowed increasing the stability of the
rover when carrying heavy loads between
task checkpoints in uneven terrain.
To achieve the precision and dexterity
required for the equipment servicing
task, our new tubular arm structure
provides excellent rigidity in all
directions, while our custom cycloidal
gear boxes provide a stable platform for
precise control of the end effector. Each
joints motor includes a high-resolution
quadrature encoder allowing high
accuracy velocity control. 14-bit
resolvers on all joints provide reliable
position data without needing a homing
procedure. Together they allow the
operator to control the arm velocity in
Cartesian space using inverse kinematics,
simplifying control during linear
movements such as opening drawers. We've constructed a full scale replica of the
2019 equipment servicing rocket
enabling accurate assessments of arm
performance and realistic simulated
operator training. The two-finger
equipment servicing end-effector allows
for the manipulation of objects of
various geometries facilitating
interaction with switchers and joysticks
The wide opening of the jaw can also
grasp large objects such as the cache
container directly.
To improve on our previous pitfalls in
the autonomous task, we're using the
Gazebo simulator to test our algorithms
before deploying them on board our
primary computer - the Nvidia Jetson TX2,
built for advanced graphical processing.
The rover first applies an Extended
Kalman Filter to fuse data from onboard
odometry data, GPS and IMU sensors
greatly improving accuracy of rover
positioning. A 360 degree LIDAR then
generates a point cloud which is fed
into FAST-SLAM 2, an algorithm which
simultaneously provides high accuracy
localization and mapping of the rover
and surrounding features. The A-Star
pathfinding algorithm then finds an
efficient path to the checkpoint and
also navigates around obstacles. Finally
the detection of AR tags will be done
with a stereo camera supporting their
identification of markers and gates. To
notify judges completion of task stages
an LED strip has been integrated to the
rear of the rover.
The 2020 scientific
payload 'Joey' is capable of acquiring up
to four unique samples during the science
task. Several positioning sensors allow
fine control over the volume of regolith
collected. An independently actuating
microscope with dynamic control of
exposure, brightness and focal length
will also allow high-resolution imaging. Once samples are acquired two biochemical
assays and a purpose-built photospectrometer will perform in-situ life detection.
Proteins and enzyme activity
will be investigated allowing the team
to determine the presence of life in
samples, and distinguish between extinct
and extant. 'Joey' will also monitor a
range of environmental variables further
supporting habitability investigations. Geological analysis is enabled by images
from the microscope, which will allow
grain size and shape of rock and soil to
be identified even in varying test conditions.
Finally, a mineralogical database has
been integrated into the rover's GUI to
streamline this process.
