Hello there. We’re the Northeastern University 
Mars Rover team, and we’re excited to compete in  
this year’s University Rover Challenge. Over the 
past 5 months, we’ve worked hard on all aspects of  
our system, and we’re finally ready to share 
with you our 2022 Mars Rover: Watney Mark 3.
Watney’s foundation begins with the chassis 
and mobility system. Our tried-and-true  
rocker-bogie design is made from lightweight 
aluminum with a carbon-fiber bar differential,  
which has been further validated this year through 
FEA simulation and testing over rough terrain.  
Each wheel contains a high torque motor,  
allowing the rover to climb up a 45-degree 
slope with only 3 wheels on the ground.
To improve the serviceability and modularity of 
our rover, we’ve made extensive use of 3D printed  
parts. Using lessons from our previous 
wheels, we applied long-duration static  
load testing to seven separate models 
before settling on a finalized design.  
These new wheels were printed using a flexible 
filament, capable of conforming to the terrain  
for better traction. We also upgraded our 
wheel hub assembly from epoxied shafts to  
set screw hubs and interface plates, 
allowing us to easily swap wheels.
Lastly, we added a new modular 
storage compartment to the chassis.
This allows us to stow payloads during traversal,
reducing stress on the robotic arm 
during long-distance equipment delivery.
This year, we’ve created a completely new 6 DoF 
arm. Our new design uses a heterogenous-torque  
motor setup to reduce strain on joints further 
along the arm, as well as off-axis motors near the  
base of the arm to lower its center of mass. This 
increases our lifting capacity to 6kg of weight at  
0.9m away, compared to last year’s reach of 0.7m. 
Our end-effector features a differential wrist to  
maximize torque uniaxially and a twin lead screw 
gripper with a common interface that allows us  
to swap in specialized 3D printed hands for 
each challenge. We’ve validated our arm through  
multiple design reviews, FEA analyses, and initial 
testing with a mock equipment servicing lander.
Our rover is controlled by 7 new iterations 
of our fully-custom PCBs. All boards are  
controlled by STM32 microcontrollers, 
which interface with all of our sensors,  
motor drivers, battery management 
systems, and our main on-board computer.  
This year, we’ve upgraded our boards to support 
the industry-standard CAN protocol. This allows  
them to communicate on a single shared bus, saving 
cable mass and improving future scalability.
To maximize room for on-board science, all 
boards have identical mounting holes for  
vertical stacking. We’ve also added 
redundancy for our critical sensors  
to reduce the possibility of a mission-ending 
failure. Lastly, we added a new base-station PCB,  
equipped with two on-board GPSs to 
allow for differential positioning.
This year, we are integrating and 
refining our life detection array.  
Instead of collecting soil samples 
via a vacuum tube—which presented  
special challenges due to low 
Martian atmospheric density—we  
will leverage the flexibility of our new arm to 
deliver samples to the testing array via a scoop.
Once soil is delivered to the hopper, a 
near infrared spectrometer will be lowered  
to test the soil for the carbon-carbon and 
carbon-nitrogen bonds. We also plan to add  
a 1000x magnification digital microscope 
to investigate rock samples for fossils.
After NIR analysis, the sample will be 
released into a tube and mixed with water.  
The resulting slurry is filtered and 
passed over paper test strips for nitrites,  
proteins, glucose, and fatty acids. 
This information will allow us to  
draw conclusions about the presence 
of life, either extinct or extant.
To enhance our autonomous and operator 
assistance capabilities, we’ve further  
developed our navigation software. Using 3D point 
cloud data from a ZED 2i stereoscopic camera,  
we generate a real-time map of the environment 
and associated obstacle avoidance cost map,  
with ultrasonic sensors providing 
a secondary always-on-watchdog.  
This visual odometry is then fused with an 
on-board 9-axis IMU using an Extended Kalman  
Filter, and globally localized using differential 
GPS, providing us with sub-meter accuracy.
To improve on the limited visibility we 
encountered during the 2021 competition,  
we’ve also deployed 10 conventional 
cameras on-board the rover,  
including three with dual-axis pan/tilt motors. 
This allows us to detect ARUCO markers at any  
position around the rover while providing 
operators with live, low-latency video feeds.
Control for all systems is handled 
via our new React-based UI framework.  
Compared to our previous Qt-based system, our 
library of smaller flexible components has  
vastly improved the versatility and modularity 
of our interface. This enabled us to quickly  
test and implement new components, including an 
advanced waypoint-based path-planning interface.
To date, we have finished manufacturing 
and testing for all of our subsystems.  
Over the coming months, we’ll continue 
validating and tuning our operator  
interfaces through multiple mock competition runs.  
We are highly confident that we will have a 
fully integrated and tested rover come June.
SEE YOU IN UTAH!
