We are the OzU Rover team from Özyeğin University, 
Istanbul, Turkey and we are excited to reveal our  
new rover for the 2023 season. We are a team of 56 
dedicated students who are pationate about space  
exploration and robotics. Our team of engineers 
designers and programmers work together to design  
build and operate rovers for competitions. We 
welcome you this year, as mechanical engineers  
of OzU Rover team. With our new locomotion 
system, suspension mechanism wheel design  
and chasis design has changed completely. Our new 
chassis has been designed by taking into account  
the modularity for the electric equipment 
and six-DOF robotic manipulator. At the same  
time we integrated our new elastic-shaft rocker 
suspension system on the chassis for a balanced  
ride. This year we increased the diameter of our 
new wheel from 20 centimeters to 30 centimeters in  
order to overcome the obstacles to be encountered 
while driving. Metal plates are used as threads to  
maximize contact pressure and sinkage thereby 
maximizing the grip. With our new brushless  
hub motors we are able to control the velocity of 
each wheel independently and accurately. Our six  
degrees of freedom robotic manipulator controlled 
by inverse kinematics has been optimally developed  
to perform the necessary tasks. We have achieved 
a more sensitive and effective robotic manipulator  
thanks to our new differential wrist mechanism 
and roll axis design. On robotic manipulator’s  
electronic side, we have updated our design 
of custom made control card “Armduino” with  
feedbacks from the last year. Armduino v3 is 
our main control card for the manipulation  
which can read the data from the encoder, 
activate the brakes and drive the manipulator.  
This new design includes CAN BUS for better cable 
management and easier communication with the new  
brake controllers, which enables the team to 
have better handling of the manipulator. This  
year as electrical and electronics sub team we 
have overhauled Energy Systems within the rover.  
In response to changing power requirements we have 
switched over from 4 Series 7 Parallel Lithium-ion  
batteries to 7 series 8 Parallel Lithium-ion 
batteries. The team has designed the batteries  
with a modular approach where each of the series 
can be connected and disconnected separately with  
proper safety measurements installed. As a result 
of this setup, the team has more flexibility  
in terms of logistics and a modular approach 
where systems can be differentiated. As a part  
of this year's project, the team has designed and 
manufactured its own power distribution board. Due  
to different energy requirements within locomotion 
the team decided to simplify the Power Electronics  
by combining all of the converters onto one board, 
where all of the power control elements can be  
monitored and changed in real time. As a result 
the team was able to make better decisions and  
implement another safety system within the rover. 
For URC 2023 we have designed and programmed an  
entirely new autonomous navigation program. 
Utilizing Robot Operating Software where we  
have created three nodes, responsible for sensory 
data processing pathfinding and delegation of  
movement commands. ZED2 camera is used to extract 
point cloud information that is then processed  
to retain only the high slope regions the rover 
cannot scale, which are then marked as obstacles.  
in our Coastline the image data from zip2 is 
used to identify rupertempts as well the camera  
also contains an IMU sensor from which we generate 
odometry data for localization. for pathfinding we  
have written a randomly exploring three library. 
We use this library to generate it to restructure  
on our customer that is guaranteed to find a clear 
path to the goal system can dynamically replies if  
a collision course is detected upon new sensory 
data. Our communication system consists of two  
wireless routers which are TP-Link 2.4 gigahertz 
omnidirectional antenna and another TP-Link  
router. This year Pant-Tilt mechanism is 
implemented to base antenna in order to  
ensure that our system performs reliable 
communication. Additionally two IP cameras  
are utilized in order to get live stream view 
around the rover. The science system consists  
of primary objectives of collecting soil samples, 
analyzing them and collecting environmental data.  
To achieve this various sensors are strategically 
positioned throughout the system to collect data  
such as temperature humidity carbon monoxide 
methane nitrogen and potassium. To determine  
the presence of carbohydrates potassium iodide is 
used, while methylene Orange is employed for pH  
level determination. The Bradford test, a reliable 
and accurate spectroscopic analytical approach,  
is selected for protein indication. The 
soil collection shovel is equipped with  
a linear mechanism that allows it to descend 
and rise, capturing and transferring samples  
to test tubes. these test tubes are then placed 
on a revolving plate that rotates to position  
samples in the spectrometer for analysis. 
With the introduction of a new spectrometer,  
the overall measurement of absorbance 
has significantly improved allowing the  
system to detect absorption between 200 to 1000 
nanometers. The spectrometer measures how much  
light is absorbed by the sample at each wavelength 
and the wavelength value that reaches the peak in  
the graph is used to define the amounts of protein 
within the sample. To facilitate control over the  
science system we have designed a custom-made 
GUI that allows users to operate the system and  
simultaneously observe significant data coming 
from the onboard science laboratory sensors.
