Hello! We are Ozyegin University Rover Team
from Istanbul, Turkey. We have been
building rover prototypes since 2014.
Our team has undergraduate students from
different departments, forming an
interdisciplinary working environment.
The team consists of five sub-teams :
locomotion, manipulation, autonomy, science
and management. This year we worked hard
to develop our sixth-generation rover.
After doing a lot of research, we decided
to use a differential mechanism with
four wheels. The system is stronger and
lighter than other systems. It can be
easily folded for carrying. Tyres are made of rubber for long
distance travel with minimal skid on the
terrain. Four different tyre prototypes
were produced to achieve the most
suitable wheel design.
 
In order to analyze the dynamic behavior
of the rover, a multi-body dynamic
simulation was conducted. We decided on
the optimum parameters of the design
before manufacturing started.
Speed controllers with integrated PID
controller and CANBUS communication
protocol were used to drive the
locomotion motors. Our main processor
board Jetson TX2 transmits CAN message
to speed controllers according to
drivers input command. Our rover has a
five degrees of freedom manipulator with
two-fingered gripper. Pitch, roll rotation
and gripping motions are actuated by two
servos and the stepper motor
 
A linear motor was attached on the top
of the end-effector
to press keyboard keys during the
servicing mission. A custom PCB was
designed to control the arm motor. Control of the arm is done in cartesian
space with the help of inverse kinematic
calculations. Joints' angles are
calculated for each configuration given
by the joystick input.
The base station communicates with the
rover, using an omnidirectional antenna
and the wireless router. Lithium-polymer batteries are used to
power the rover.
 
We used multiple steps to provide safety
to our robot. The activity indicator
shows the current states of the robot.
Rover has an emergency button. Once pressed,
the rover stops working immediately.
The rover has a unique onboard science
laboratory that can collect samples with
a drill. Using the collected soil
samples, potassium, phosphorus, nitrate
concentration can be approximated and
the pH value of the water can be
measured. Rover has equipped with a
carbon monoxide, temperature, humidity
sensors, an anemometer, UV light intensity meter, and the barometric pressure sensor.
With the collected data, our science team
can predict if there was any extinct or
extant life or comment on the livability
of the environment. For the rock analysis we
use sensitive microscope to see
fossilized or living microbial
communities
During autonomous traversal, our
rover gathers odometry information from
three different sources encoders, ZED
stereo camera, and GPS. Using the onboard
stereo depth camera, the rover can avoid
barriers.
Hope to see you in Utah! :)
