We are OzU Rover Team from Özyeğin University 
in Istanbul, Turkey! Our team was established in  
2014 as the first rover team in Turkey, and have 
been building Mars Rover prototypes since 2014.  
Our team consists of 4 sub-teams which 
are ‘Locomotion&Autonomy’, ‘Robotic Arm’,  
‘Public Relations’ and ‘Science’. And I would like 
to introduce our fifth-generation rover prototype  
'Peace’ . This year, we aimed to develop our 
locomotion and autonomous systems by designing  
and implementing new algorithms which include 
synchronous motor driving using Talon SRX’s.  
Thanks to CAN BUS line, crucial data such as 
temperature, voltage, velocity and current  
values of the motors can be tracked from control 
station simultaneously via custom made GUI.  
he rover is stabilized throughout traversal using 
our differential mechanism. the Rover was created  
in such a way that it could be folded and moved 
effortlessly. To investigate the rover's dynamic  
behavior, a multibody dynamics simulation was 
used. For the communication between control  
station and the rover, we use TP Link antenna on 
control station and mikrotik (microtick) antenna  
on the rover, which allow us to send and receive 
signals even with kilometers of separation.  
In order to get live stream view from around 
the rover, 5 IP cameras which are strategically  
placed on the rover are used. In case of an 
emergency, the rover also was equipped with  
an emergency stop button. When the button 
is pressed, the rover immediately stops.  
To increase the efficiency of the 
rover, the energy system was changed.  
Lithium ion batteries have been used instead 
of lithium polymer batteries. New Battery  
Management System was designed by the rover's 
maximum energy consumption. Also, a new Battery  
Management System is used with an implemented CAN 
line for reliable data and to check and regulate  
the rover’s energy consumption. In our autonomous 
system, we have developed a custom-made algorithm  
called Gate Approach System which utilizes 
RGB-D camera data to perform AR tag detection.  
In order to perform object avoidance, realsense’s 
depth data is converted to point clouds which  
are going to be used in euclidean clustering 
to detect and avoid obstacles successfully.  
This year, we focused on developing a new 6 DOF 
robotic arm and a new end effector design. RVIZ  
simulation environment lets us establish Forward 
kinematics control over the arm. Then via Move-it,  
we also established Inverse kinematics control 
over the arm and demonstrated it to new members.  
We used aluminum, castermid and PLA 
parts during the arm production.  
Pulley system and gear reducers are used to 
provide power transmission and increase torque  
throughout the robotic arm. The DC motors 
are controlled through in-house made Armduino  
control boards. Each Armduino can control the 
motor current with an integrated motor driver,  
can read motor encoder and can 
switch the state of the motor brake.  
The servos on the arm are controlled with ROS 
through serial communication with the Jetson TX2. 
...combining torque and precision, in order 
to be able to lift heavy weights comfortably  
and perform panel operations with precision.
Thanks to the yaw, roll and pitch movements 
that the end effector can do panel tasks such as  
switching & pressing buttons & adjusting Voltage 
using potentiometer can be easily performed.
…and objects such as screwdrivers 
can be easily held.Thus,  
the desired objects can be 
delivered to the designated areas.
The three main purposes of the science mechanism 
are to collect soil samples, analyze them,  
and collect environmental data. The new science 
system has achieved an overall improvement.  
Weighing in at five and a half kilograms, as 
opposed to the previous system's ten kilograms.  
A mechanism on the soil collection shovel is 
able to descend and rise linearly to capture  
and transfer samples to test tubes. After that, 
a revolving plate where test tubes are located  
rotates to place samples in the spectrometer for 
analysis. Environmental data such as Temperature,  
humidity, Carbon Monoxide, Methane, Nitrogen, and 
Potassium are also gathered by sensors that were  
positioned throughout the system We used potassium 
iodide to determine presence of carbohydrates  
and methylene Orange for pH level determination. 
For protein indication we have decided to use  
the Bradford test since it is a simple and 
accurate spectroscopic analytical approach  
for determining the protein content of a solution. 
in the spectrometer, the absorption of many  
protein-containing solutions is greatest in the 
UV-visible range(280-595 nm). At each wavelength,  
the spectrometer we built measures how much 
light is absorbed, transmitted, or reflected  
by the sample. The beam enters the prism, goes 
through the sample and then lands on the sensor.  
The wavelength value that reaches the peak in 
the graph is used to define the protein. Science  
System mechanism can be controlled by our custom 
made GUI that allows user to operate the system  
and simultaneously observe significant data coming 
from the onboard science laboratory sensors.
