We are the Persistence Rover Team 
Our team is composed of electrical, computer and mechanical engineering students
at Utah State University with the goal to build a rover that will compete in the University Rover Challenge.
Along the way we have had the opportunity to learn about the engineering design life cycle,
 participate in engineering community nights, and work in a multidisciplinary team to develop a product. 
We are the Persistence Rover team, and this is the Persistence Rover.
Affectionately named Perci, our rover fits within a 1.2m cube at deployment then stretches to 150 cm during operation.
Perci has a top speed of 3 m/s, with a base mass of 35 kg.
With removable modular subsystems, our rover is prepared to take on various missions.
Lets take a closer look at how we got here.
We first needed a framework to mount all of our communication, drive hardware and subsystems,
this is where the chassis comes in.
 To achieve the main goal of supporting these systems we opted to construct a configurable aluminum extrude design.
For the suspension, we wanted to maximize the length of the wheelbase while still meeting the 1.2 m size constraint.
We settled on a linkage system which can be folded inward to accomplish this.
Each side of the suspension consists of 2 rockers which share a concentric pivot around the middle wheel.
Each rocker attaches to the chassis with a short upright link.
Our suspension system allows for up to 20 cm of articulation at each of it’s 6 points of contact.
We experimented with many different wheel sizes and grips. Based on performance we elected to go with a 30 cm
airless tire constructed from TPU. At the time of filming, only 2 wheels have finished production,
but are performing as intended, with traction to drive forward and backward and enough lateral slip to allow for turning.
Permanently fixed to the chassis is our communications and power hub.
In addition to providing power to the whole rover and it's subsystems, this box houses the brains of the rover.
A jetson Xavier receives commands and distributes them to the proper subsystem.
The communications hub also sends sensor and visual feedback to the operators in using
the 900 Mhz and 5.8Ghz bands respectively.
The drive system is also housed here. Utilizing Talon SRX speed controllers and custom made rotary encoders
each wheel has its own PID control system allowing for better traction control.
The rover operator uses the command center to send instructions to the rover.
A Pi4 utilizes ROS to collect and send commands to the rover, allowing multiple subsystems to operate and run at once.
One such subsystem is the arm. The Persistence rover can be equipped with a 6 degree of freedom robotic arm.
Movements are based around a 3-axis coordinate system with a control origin fixed at the base of the claw.
A micro controller converts steps in this reference frame to a rover centric coordinate frame,
and then inverse kinematics are performed to create commands to move the arm to that location.
The resolution of these movements are as small as 2.5 mm.
The operator is able to view the arm from both a third person perspective and the control origin.
A claw is attached to the end of the arm to allow for fine motor tasks,
such as button pushing, switch flipping and typing on a keyboard.
A retractable hex driver is also attached to allow for tightening and loosening of screws.
While the claw’s tip performs dexterous tasks, the thicker base enables the claw to handle greater loads.
The persistence rover arm is able to lift 5kgs at full extension.
With over a meter of reach the arm creates a significant moment on the rover,
thus we have elected to mount the arm approximately 30 cm from the front of the rover to prevent tipping.
We believe the arm to be capable of all required tasks for the extreme retrieval and delivery mission
as well as the equipment servicing mission.
For the science section of the competition we are tasked with creating a life detection module.
To accomplish this we have opted to use ramen Spectroscopy.
Soil samples are collected via a scoop which lowers from the bottom of the rover.
This soil is then dissolved into solution to prepare it for exposure to a laser.
By observing the scattered light after the laser hits the solution
we can predict the absence or presence of life whether extant or extinct.
The persistence rover is equipped with a rudimentary autonomous navigation system.
Using a GPS and a magnetometer the rover plots a course to a desired destination and begins driving there.
Sonic sensors attached around the rover map obstacles. If an obstacle is found to be in the rovers path,
a new path is calculated which takes into account the presence of obstacles.
Upon reaching a station where Arco tags are present, a secondary camera begins searching.
After finding an Arco tag, the relative position is calculated then driving instructions are created and executed.
We are The Persistence Rover Team, and this is Perci.
