We are the PHARAOHS team of the Military Technical College, 
and we are ready to compete in URC  
2023 with our enhanced rover (The PHARAOHS Rover). Our team consists of undergrad Engineers 
and divided into 4 main groups 
Mechanical, Electrical, Science, Navigation.
For the chassis we used aluminum due to its low 
weight and relatively high strength in addition  
to 3d printed parts and acrylic material 
to finish manufacturing of the rover. 
our rover s suspension system is rocker bogie suspension which has proven mobility application, 
The suspension assures that the 4 wheels  are touching the ground all the time. 
The 4x4 Modified rocker bogie system is included to provide chassis stability and  high maneuverability
We took in consideration the rovers weight as it weighs under 50kg and fits in a 1.2 m^3 box 
To overcome different types of rough terrains we designed a new 3d printed airless tires. 
After many iterations we found that 
the design structure honey comb is  
suitable for our needs due to its high 
strength, low weight and good stiffness.
For the robotic arm we are using linear actuator  
due to its high torque to weight ratio, 
easy control and easy fabrication.   
The linear actuator is attached to aluminum profile with a steel base which rotate  
360 degrees with a DC motor connected to worm gearbox which have high gear ratio and safety lock  
so that it provides 6 degrees of freedom. For this year we designed a gripper, we use servo motor with  
spur gears to transmit the motion and multiple the torque to achieve the tasks easily and rapid. 
And a PCB for simple connection and easy wiring.
electrical system in this year is more 
reliable, we have created the whole  
system feeded with 24-volt battery that 
is protected with many safety components  
such as relays, circuit breakers and fuse 
boxes for protection from over current or  
short circuit and we also use manual kill 
switches for more safety. To improve the  
electrical system this year, we have made a two large PCBs to minimize complex wiring.  
The first one is used for feeding the power to all components with the required power,  
and another one is used for controlling the motors and collecting the feedback data from the motors
For making the control system robust we used the intel NUC computer as the primary master  
that communicates via serial bus with the microcontroller, Arduino is our central  
microcontroller that communicates with motor driver and encoder to provide PID control over the  
motors and the arm which is done by controlling the servo motor and the linear actuator.
Our external communication is based 
on 2.4Ghz Wi-Fi and 900 MHz RF  
along with 5.8 GHz RFD video link 
While internal communication done through Ethernet, serials, and USB connections 
We implemented a video server which supports up to 6 cameras with bit rate of 5 Mbits per second
For the autonomous task we upgraded our system to operate with ros2 with a localization system  
that is done through sensor fusion between LIDAR, GPS, vector NAV and stereo vision,  
where obstacles are detected using LIDAR, the rover is then visualized on google maps to ensure  
the rover maintains its path, 
we calibrated our camera for AR detection,
with vector nav to determine Odometry and best path planning
 We started to use drone in indoor training
to drive it manually by giving it 
coordinate to take off and land on rover 
our work this year is to study a specified 
region, using chemical reactions and sensors 
in the beginning we use a Giger counter 
to detect any radioactive element activity  
then we start to search about any vital 
activates done by any living organisms  
using digital microscope after that we use our sensors and conduct our chemical reactions
