Greetings.
We are known as Project Scorpio and we are
part of the OFF-ROAD student association at
the Wrocław University of Science and Technology.
We come from different universities and consist
of six different departments: mechanical,
electronical, software, PR, finance and science.
Scorpio 7 has a dependent four wheel rocker
suspension system.
Rockers are connected by two triangular levers
linked by a beam.
This solution increases stiffness and stability
of the whole suspension.
Thanks to that, it can cross extreme terrain,
such as obstacles up to diameter of the wheel
(~30 cm) and vertical cliffs up to 1m.
Very low centre of mass allows us to overcome
steep angles up to 45 degrees.
Driving module features all-wheel drive with
BLDC motors which help the rover climb slopes
in the extreme retrieval and delivery mission.
To provide good traction, we use special tires
made with Cordura fabric.
We are also experimenting with flexible 3D
printed materials and polyurethane rubber
casting.
Robotic arm has 6 degrees of freedom.
It’s designed with use of worm and harmonic
gear reducers in order to maximise precision
and stiffness.
It has a maximum range of 1,2 m and can lift
up to 5 kg on maximal extension.
As main construction materials we used carbon
fibre, aluminium and PET-G, to provide necessary
strength to mass ratio.
We also reduced its mass by about 1 kg through
re-designing some of the aluminium parts.
Grippers moved by lead screw gives us satisfactory
grip strength.
In order to complete all necessary tasks,
we will mount a hex key and linear solenoid
at the effector.
For precise typing and operating joystick,
we are incorporating 3D inverse kinematics.
Our rover is powered by 6S Li-pol batteries,
connected to other modules by 24V bus.
Driving module is equipped with a visible
kill switch that cuts power from batteries
in case of emergency.
Every PCB made by us has: overvoltage, overcurrent
and reverse polarity protection.
As our main computer, we use Nvidia Jetson
TX2 with multiple auxiliary minicomputers
in the form of Raspberry Pi.
To connect every computer, camera and other
heavy traffic modules, we use an ethernet
link.
Other modules, such as robotic arm, drive,
GNSS and science use CAN bus to provide robust
communication.
Our communication system is based on 2.4GHz
AirMax technology suitable for long range
applications.
Vision systems consist of 4 cameras, each
one fulfilling a different purpose.
First one is our navigation camera – it
is capable of rotating in 2 degrees of freedom.
Second camera has an ultrawide lens and is
mounted on the front of the rover.
Third camera is a Stereo Camera mounted on
a mast.
Last camera is mounted on the gripper allowing
us to effectively operate the robotic arm.
Our systems were completely redesigned from
the ground up over the past year.
To make it more modular and easy to develop,
we decided to use Robot Operating System as
a base for our work.
Onboard sensors like ZED stereo camera, GNSS
and Inertial Measurement Unit in combination
with extended Kallman filter give us precise
location of the rover during each task.
To operate the rover we developed a custom
app with widgets for most important rover
modules.
Our software team has also created an accurate
representation of our rover in a simulation
environment using Gazebo to easily test autonomy
algorithms and other software solutions.
Robotic arm uses move_it package to implement
3D inverse kinematics.
It let’s us precisely control movements
of the end effector in Equipment Servicing
Mission.
For the Autonomous Navigation we utilised
ROS Navigation Stack in tandem with our own
solutions.
To indicate operation mode we attached a bright
LED at the back of the rover.
To provide training for our operators we organised
our own internal competition mirroring URC
tasks.
Our rover is equipped with many sensors: temperature,
humidity and pH, but the most important are
nitrogen, potassium and phosphorus sensors.
They allow us to measure content of mentioned
elements in soil in order to choose the best
places to take samples from.
To complete the science task, we’ve designed
a module mounted in the robotic arm’s place.
Its made of soil composition sensor, as well
as a self-developed Raman spectrometer.
Module is designed to test soil below the
rover without taking physical samples.
For now the robotic arm’s gripper is also
capable of taking soil samples and putting
them in the previous version of science module
-ULEP.
Our planned analysis consists of using a Raman
spectrometer.
Spectral data received from this device will
be crucial for examining the composition of
the sample.
Our team will be looking for Raman shifts
characteristic for compounds such as amino
acids, which will state the presence of life.
At this moment our spectrometer is still under
development.
Science module also has a microscope to give
us the possibility of examining soil.
It allows us to find microfossils, which may
state the presence of life in the past.
All data collection from sensors is done by
our web app to make it easy to view and analyse.
