Hello, we are Project Scorpio, part of Scientific Society OFF-ROAD,
based at Wroclaw of University of Science and Technology
Right now, we have 29 members from multiple disciplines.
Our workflow is divided into 4 departments – mechanical, electronic, software and science.
Each department is responsible for different aspect of our rover.
Scorpio X rover is based on simplified rocker-boogie suspension,
connected with differential beam.
Main body of the rover is made using lightweight materials
such as aluminium or polyamide.
Our driving module features all-wheel drive and special kind of Cordura tires.
As for the robotic arm it has 6 degrees of freedom
and it can lift up to 5 kg on maximum extension.
Robotic arm can take soil samples by exchanging tips of the gripper.
Driving module is equipped with kill switch that cuts power from batteries in case of emergency.
Every PCB has overvoltage, overcurrent and undervoltage protection as well as overvoltage clamping.
Vision systems consist of 5 cameras
First of them is our navigation camera
– it is capable of rotating in 2 degrees of freedom.
Second camera has ultrawide lens and is mounted on the front of the rover.
Third camera is a Stereo Camera mounted on a second mast.
Fourth and Fifth cameras are mounted on the end of robotic arm.
We use 2 types of communication buses in our rover.
First of them is Ethernet -
connection link between our base and rover.
CAN bus serves as main data link within the rover.
It connects our main computer – Nvidia Jetson TX2 with every submodule.
To connect with the base, we use 2,4 GHz and 900 MHz frequencies.
Software is divided into independent fault tolerant modules
which can exchange information via our message broker by TCP/IP protocol.
Navigation module is responsible for processing telemetry data from GPS, IMU and visual odometry.
Robotic arm control system allows us to implement many types of control in task or configuration space.
We use web application onboard the rover which collects all data,
for example: sensors, position or drive parameters.
We can present results in form of charts, tables and reports, generated in real time.
To tackle with a science task,
we provide our rover with numerous of sensors and DIY devices,
that allow us to conduct chemical analysis.
All data are measured onboard the rover.
Results are analysed in our base, to characterise ambient environment.
Sensors capable of constantly measuring environmental parameters like
temperature, UV-index, humidity are located on the mast.
Soils samples are placed with robotic arm, in special rotary container -
Universal Land Exploration Platform - ULEP
Thanks to that, we are able to separate samples, from different sites.
Some chambers containing chemicals, necessary to characterise the soil.
ULEP is completely isolated, any chemicals or water used onboard are safe and will not split on the ground.
Sensors capable of measuring soil parameters,
such as pH, humidity, microscope and spectroscope are placed on another,
descending rotor, which analyse each sample in ULEP.
Our rover can cross extreme terrain, thanks to suspension system,
, very low centre of mass and exceptional tires made from Cordura.
Our rover can overcome obstacles up to diameter of the wheel
and vertical cliffs up to 1m.
In order to help with controlling the rover and speed up target finding,
we designed augmented reality system.
Every task target has its own marker on navbar and self-orientating map.
We made some improvements to our robotic arm from last year.
We redesigned electronic boards to make them cheaper and more robust.
We use combination of worm
and harmonic gear reducers to maximise precision and stiffness of whole construction.
We achieved that with use of very light and durable materials
such as carbon fibre tubes, aluminium and PET-G.
Gripper gives us satisfactory grip strength and precision.
.  In order to complete all necessary sub-tasks,
we decided to mount Allen hex key
and small linear solenoid on the end of effector.
For precise typing and operating joystick, we will incorporate 3D inverse kinematics.
Main sensors used in Autonomous Traversal Task is stereo camera,
differential GPS and inertial measurement unit.
. Based on depth map from stereo vision,
we create visualization of real terrain.
Based on rover forward kinematics and terrain map
we implemented high-fidelity traversability analysis algorithm
and path planning based on A*.
To estimate wheel slip we use differences between wheel odometry
and visual/inertial odometry.
