Team Rudra has been participating in the
University Rover challenge since 2013.
Since then our team has evolved in
various technical aspects and lab has
been fully equipped with latest
equipments and technologies. This year
rover has gone through massive
transformation in all aspects. Prime goal
was to make a robust system which can
withstand the harsh terrain and is able
to tackle all challenges during URC.
Mechanical team has done R&D to develop
a lighter and more reliable system this
year. The rover weighs just 40 kgs with all
equipments on board. Chassis is a closed frame made of hollow aluminum box channels to
absorb the bending loads. This year's
rover has a four-wheel drive with
independent compression springs at each
wheel. The suspension links and springs
are designed in a way to prevent the
impacts from hitting the chassis and is
able to keep it almost parallel to the
ground. The chassis provides enough room
to install the electronics and mounting
of different components. This is a jointed
arm configuration with five degree of
freedom and actuated by two linear and
four rotary actuators. The links are made
from the nylon rectangular beams with
high section modulus to prevent bending.
Pitch and roll motion are achieved by
the different combination of bevel gear
mechanism actuated by two servo motors.
The gripper is a two-finger claw with
four-bar mechanism to ensure the
parallel motion of fingers and is
capable of picking the things of five
centimeter dia. with ease. It is actuated
by a lead screw which is powered through
the high torque DC motor. The maximum reach of the gripper is 1.6 meters from ground
and is able to lift 5 kgs of weight with
no effort. 12 inch wheels with a wider
base provide enough traction to the
rover and make it easy to maneuver
through rocky terrain. Astronaut
assistant box has two separate chambers
which helps in easy deploying of the
tools. This year the electronics of the
rover has evolved and has been made
highly reliable and modular making it
easy to debug. The arm and the drive
system have been kept completely
independent which reduces the complexity
of the system. A combination of four and
five cell li-po batteries are being used to
power the electronic subsystem of the
rover whose power supply is being
regulated by an array of
buck boost dc-to-dc converters.For making the
drive system robust, jetson tx2 is the
primary master that communicates via
serial bus with the two dual channel
sabertooth motor drivers controlling four
24 volt banebot geared DC motors for
driving the rover. The central board of
the rover has been custom designed to
incorporate the STM32 micro
controller, it communicates with the arm
motor drivers for controlling the
actuation of the arm and YPR system. It
also manages the power distribution to
the onboard POE and the motion of the
camera system, astronaut assistance box
is also controlled by the board. The
rover also incorporates a kill switch
that will terminate the entire power
supply to the arm and drive control. For
the communication, we are using 2.4
GHz spectrum that is coupled with
omni-directional antenna at the access
point and direction sector antenna at
the base station which gives us a range
of 1.2 kilometres with low latency. We
are using a 1.2 and a 5.8 GHz
transmitters for the analog feed of the
cameras. As to advance our system and
make it flexible our team moved the
conventional system to ROS. Internal
communication of the rover subsystems is
being handled by ROS serial. The
communication from the central board to
the robotic arm and other peripherals
is done by a checksum based serial
communication. The linear actuators
comprise of highly precise potentiometers to facilitate feedback for the
inverse kinematic algorithms, it also
allows arm to move in a specific axis in
space hence making it easier to grab and
drop objects. The feedback from the rover
is displayed in real time on the GUI
aiding in secure operation. The speed
acceleration and error offset can be
dynamically modified to enhance
performance significantly in extreme
conditions. Team has also implemented a
self-diagnostic system which helps in
verification of all the peripherals
prior to the task. For the autonomous task,
we are using stereo camera to obtain
point clouds and disparity maps to
determine obstacle. On reaching the
coordinate the rover uses a spiral scout algorithm and distance metric
Euclidean algorithm to track AR tags and
pass between the gates. An array of LEDs
on the hind side of the rover depict
different modes of the rover, in addition
to which the rover also notifies the
same to the base station GUI.
The mission to find the proof of life on
Mars demands the integration of diverse
array of scientific techniques.
Collection of soil samples is done by
boring a hole of adequate depth using
an auger. The rover uses a calorimetric
assay to measure the presence of inter and
intra-cellular carbohydrates. The science
payload comprises of a high-speed
centrifuge which is used to optimize the
response of the assay. A maneuverable
digital microscope is installed on the
rover to search for bio signatures in
rocks. A combination of various gas
sensors will provide us with additional
data to help us arrive at a correct
conclusion.
