Hello! We are Team RUDRA the official Mars Rover Team of SRM. Our team has been performing against
 the top performers of URC since 2013 and we aspire to learn and improve our system by many folds. Our team 
comprises 5 interdisciplinary domains namely mechanical, electronics, corporate, developers and science 
This year's main focus was to improve the manipulator for better manoeuvrability and a more
 precise and reliable autonomous system.
The rover weighs only 45 kgs with all equipment on board.
The chassis frame is made up of hollow aluminium box channels supported by a 4-wheel drive with
independent suspensions. The 12-inch wheels with a wider base provide enough traction to the rover.
They are driven by Brushed DC motors coupled with a planetary gearbox which helps to transfer
The largest possible torque in the most compact form.The forearm of the manipulator will be made  
of aluminium box channels, supported by a hind arm made of 2 aluminium square channels. The Arm 
 is actuated by 2 cycloidal drives as an improvement to our previous year’s design. This configuration
provides an increased work volume envelope, improving rigidity and precision
as it can stop at specific angles. The ARM to Chassis turntable joint has been made modular
making the manipulator an independent system and coupled with the end-effector provides five degrees of freedom.
A separate modular arm actuated by linear actuators is assisted by an Auger which can
penetrate even hard soil and collect samples up to 15cm deep. This is enclosed by a custom 3D 
printed case containing the physio-chemical & gas sensors. To employ and modernize our previous year’s electronic  
subsystem we have added several upgrades. The primary Master on board is the jetson tx2 communicating via serial 
bus with the two dual-channel sabertooth motor drivers controlling four 24 volt banebot
geared DC motors for driving the rover. To reduce the complexity of the system, the drive and 
the manipulator module have been kept separate controlled by the STM32F discovery onboard
microcontroller. Our newly designed custom PCB provides the “Plug and play” feature to reduce effort. A combination 
of four and five-cell lipo batteries are being used to power the Rover regulated by an array of buck-boost
dc with dc converters moreover every subsystem 
including the actuator has and feedback system  
to provide features to perform inverse kinematics and to run system-check status. For the communication, we are
using a 2.4 GHz spectrum that is coupled with an Omni-directional antenna at the access point and  
direction sector antenna at the base station which gives us a range of 1.2 kilometers with
low latency. We are using a 1.2 and a 5.8 GHz transmitter for the analog feed of the cameras.
The Science Domain is dedicated to making the rover equipped with the science payload that
consists of instruments and assays to determine the absence or presence of either extinct
or extant life. The collection of the samples, from a minimum of three sites, will be done using an auger 
mechanism and transferred equally with the help of funnels into the respective Falcon Tubes present
in a centrifuge setup. The samples are analysed using the Catalase and Anthrone test which will
serve the purpose of determining the presence of life. The arm of the auger consists of multiple
gas and physiochemical sensors to detect the gases like Hydrogen Sulfide, Carbon Dioxide and
Ammonia released while drilling the soil. These gasses are major by-products of various metabolic
processes, hence indicating microbial activity and habitability. 
A digital microscope is attached with our rover which provides a magnified live feed of the rocks
to analyze their structural features, indicating the presence of minerals/major element oxides,
stromatolites, microfossils and kerogen. 
Robot Operating System - ROS is used to build
the software side of the rover making it modular with the use of services making the Drive system reliable is
and tested in previous competitions. The rover was simulated In the Gazebo simulator on various
terrains to optimize its path planning algorithms and other aspects. The rover is supported by a closed-loop
feedback system to help catch errors and adapt the rover dynamically.For the autonomous task,  
highly optimized and well-tested packages are used to detect the AR tags after the rover
localizes itself with the given GNSS coordinates using a differential GNSS system to calculate
the accurate position. We plan to use Moveit Motion planning framework to solve the inverse
and forward kinematics problems of our manipulator, testing it in simulation for optimal performance.
 
