The Pharaohs team consists of three
sections mechanical, electrical, and science
The mechanical team, electrical team, 
science team. One of our management
considerations this year was focusing on
the development of the team
The tally on the left shows each member
skill level from day one. A training
program is developed and implemented
then the member skills are shown again
at the end of the year. In this summary
red shows the required number of members
determined by the team leaders yellow
and blue show the number of members with
that skill level
Before manufacturing the chassis
performance was tested using Gazebu
simulation
Problems identified in the simulation
such as continuous rotation of the bogie
were solved beforehand in this case
using mechanical Stoppers saving us time
and money the required torque was
calculated and treads were manufactured
to generate the required traction for
the rover. A six degrees of freedom
robotic arm was manufactured at the Arab Organization for Industrialization and
the gripper was manufactured internally
using our 3d printer
The Web API allows the rover to be
easily controlled using any web-enabled
device provides the up-to-date status of
the rover subsystems and allows the
rover to be station independent. All
communication between the control system
and the rover are over IP, we use Wi-Fi
boosters to enhance the communication
link and selecting the best commercial
communication system. Here we see a live
simulation of Gazebo
that is controlled first using a
joystick and then by manipulating a
prototype arm. Autonomous control uses
data from several standard sources as
well as satellite pictures that produce
an occupancy grid which helps the rover
with path planning. Once a global path is
set image processing to detect obstacles
is used to develop subpaths. After
arrival at the target location image
processing is further used to find the
gate indicator and approach it the
rover's power levels are monitored
throughout the operation to avoid any
unplanned behavior
We are currently testing the rover's
capabilities to achieve the URC's
required tasks
For the in lab experiment this year we
will be testing for DNA and RNA using
the two tests shown here as well as
other biomarkers that would indicate
whether life exists
In this controlled experiment we see the
result of two samples one with and the
other without s DPA solution. We improved
our understanding of the different types
of rocks by collecting a large database
of rock properties. Our mechanical team
developed the shovel in order to achieve
the soil depth required barrying in mind
the no spill policy our science box has
a capacity of six onboard wet tests its
sensors allow for the collection of soil
and environmental readings
