The rover parts has been produced using
advanced manufacturing technologies
like CNC metalworking, milling, turning and water jet cutting.
For evaluation of new design, changes to
the 3D printing has been used in the rapid-prototyping process.
Moreover innovative composite casting has been used for critical rover parts.
The frame is crucial part of the whole vehicle.
To prepare the rover for the
dynamic load which occurs in motion
the buckle-resistant trapeze-shape profiles has been used.
The legendary VI vehicle is driven by four independently suspended wheels.
The independent suspension arms system assures that even rapid, dynamic movement,
like turning in place or changing direction while driving will not cause loss of grip
nor affect rover cruising abilities, which
is common issue of the competitive
rocker-bogie suspension type.
Thanks to design changes and immediate testing by
rapid prototyping we achieved higher
ground clearance with better stability
of the platform which allows rover to
attack even steeper slopes with no risk of felling over.
The robotic arm has six
degrees of freedom
and thanks to worm and planetary gear
combination it provides more than six
kilograms of lifting ability.
Independent DC motors with encoders give the
ability to control joints in closed loop
system using PID controller.
The heaviest manipulator parts - gearmotors are placed
as low as possible to improve
manipulator stability and to lower the
vehicle center of mass.
Wheels are bigger and wider than those on previous Legendary vehicles.
All wheels are manufactured in new technology involving composite materials.
Whole structure of each wheel is designed to absorb shock and to improve traction.
We will carry out physicochemical analysis of soil by determining its temperature, pH, salinity, conductivity and humidity.
Also we will perform rapid colorimetric strip tests to estimate quality of the soil.
To determine presence of life we won't use microbial tests
due to assumptions for example aerobic or anerobic bacteria.
We will perform tests for
the basis of life - proteins and levels of ATP.
These tests are much more comprehensive
when it comes to life detection.
The new PC software is based on reliable core system that we are continuously
improving to speed it up by threads synchronization mechanism optimization and overall enhancements.
Internal data streams were rewritten.
New user interface has been forged for all new equipments and autonomous system.
We added new map handling which is going to help operator to successfully complete the mission.
Our autonomous system is based on Nvidia Jetson TX2 board - computer crafted especially for such systems.
Solution is based mainly on our own code written in Python.
Main part of the system is navigation that use GPS, IMU, computer vision system and LIDAR.
The main purpose of the LIDAR is to detect natural obstacles and make it possible to avoid them.
We use GPS to approximate rover’s and marker’s localization,
but the real position is detected by computer vision algorithms.
When marker is detected we reach it and than signalize it
- this and every other behavior is defined in our ‘DecisionEngine’ module.
The heart of rover is built using STM32 microcontrollers
The main module uses Discovery development board inserted into PCB board which we have designed.
This is a powerful 32bit F4 microcontroller.
All of the data is transferred by this board to other modules.
The same unit is used in independent manipulator board.
Taking everything into consideration we decided to take same forceful steps to organize teamwork and put the tasks in appropriate order.
Flowchart and Gantt chart which have been prepared at planning stages we applied and successfully executed.
Our the newest method of organization helps us follow the dates of tasks realization
and supervise subteams results.
