Greetings! we are team Technocrats Robotics from 
Vellore Institute of Technology Chennai India.
I am Sriram Kannan the Rover lead of the team.
We present to you Marty our Rover for the University Rover Challenge of 2023.
It is the first generation Mars Exploration Rover made for traversing the surface of the red planet and detecting signs 
of life.
We have four departments working on the R&D of the rover following the requirements of the competition, namely electrical, mechanical software and science.
Hi, this is Shashank leading the mechanical department.
Our rover features a 5 DOF articulated robotic arm which can lift weights up to 7 kilos and which can be controlled using multiple linear actuators and motors.
The arm is equipped with parallel grippers the fingers of which are made of a deformable material which will make the gripping easier  
and therefore significantly increase the ability to pick up objects of different shapes and sizes.  
We have also attached an Allen key to the end of a controlling shaft allowing the arm to perform screwdriver tasks during equipment servicing.
The rover's chassis has a rectangle profile and is constructed using a sliding Square Channel, allowing us to make the robot modular.
This lets us decide between the modes while performing the task.
We have chosen four wheels differential wheel drive to attain greater efficiency with a minimum number of wheels
while also providing improvised suspension.
The Rover uses balloon wheels that adjust to surface contours offering superior traction,
shock absorption and high torque motors to navigate through diverse terrains with ease.
Hi, I am Parthiv leading the electrical department.
Every circuit board used in the Rover is made in-house 
customized and designed for its maximum efficiency.
Our Rover is equipped with features to ensure safety and reliability including backup power circuits,
an inbuilt kill switch and a BMS circuit.
The backup power circuits prevent data corruption or 
damage during power loss,
while the kill switch stops the rover's processes in emergencies.
The BMS circuit optimizes the battery life and performance of the rover.
The modular design allows for easy customization and swapping of modules
making the Rover adaptable to different missions and terrains.
Our Rover power distribution board regulates the power supply to its components
including single-board computers microcontrollers, motors, sensors and science module
ensuring each one receives safe and appropriate power.
Our Rover and the base station communicate using long-range 
wireless ubiquity antennas
with a sectoral and omnidirectional antenna respectively. 
A control and coordination circuit in the Rover
allows us to switch between science and arm modes, enabling us
to collect and analyze samples with the science module
or manipulate objects with the arm.
Hi, I'm Gokul H leading the software team.
Our autonomous navigation approach uses visible aruco markers
and GPS coordinates to dynamically set goals for the Rover.
We use real-time appearance-based mapping 
for online map generation and localization.
The real sense camera together with the wheel encoders 
and IMU
provide the data needed for the SLAM algorithm.
The Rover calculates a path to reach 
the goal and generates a cost map.
If the path planning fails or the destination is reached
a new objective is set using the current GPS coordinates.
Our 5 DOF robotic arm used the open-source MoveIt
framework for motion planning
and is simulated in gazebo for pick-and-place operations
with lightweight tools and samples.
The arm also has a two-finger gripper
capable of opening drawers and flipping switches. 
We have defined a collision matrix to
check for self-collisions among specific 
groups of links and joints for safe task execution.  
The base station operator can operate the 
arm remotely with a joystick integrated with  
RViz and view real-time footage from 
the gripper camera using RTSP protocol. 
Encoding is done on the Jetson using GStreamer 
to reduce CPU load and reduce bandwidth usage.  
Successful simulation of the arm operations 
in gazebo gives us confidence for real-life implementation.
Hi this is Jayant Dadheech leading the science team
The aim of our science mission is to detect the presence of any life form
collected by the sample on the Rover. Each soil sample collected
will be placed into four different test tubes 
where the reagents are already present.
To check the presence of extant life we test for the following 
contents in the sample
nucleic acid, proteins and carbohydrates .
Any change in color
from blue to green or yellow within 3 minutes of heating indicates
a positive Benedict test implying the 
presence of carbohydrates.
The Ninhydrin test is used to check for presence of amino acid
in the given sample 
The amino acid reacts with the chemical reagent ninhydrin to form an intermediate hydrindantin.
Therefore the acid undergoes degradation through a series of
 chemical reactions to give specific results.  
 For identifying the presence of extinct life, we have designed 
a custom Raman spectrometer to analyze and  
identify the different components of magnetites 
carbonates and phosphates present in the sample
