We are Team Anveshak, a student 
rover team from IIT Madras.  
Our team consists of 25 students from various 
engineering disciplines and has been hard at  
work redesigning our rover system to increase 
its capabilities in each of the missions.  
Anveshak is proud to present you 
our 2022 rover : 'Foresight'. 
Our manipulator is a robust 5 degree of 
freedom articulated arm that is capable  
of performing a variety of tasks like 
operating flip switches, turn knobs,  
push buttons and typing on a keyboard. We have 
elongated the slider of the linear actuator  
to increase the overall range of the 
arm. The gear ratio of the shoulder  
worm gear has been increased to raise 
the payload capacity of the manipulator. 
The end effector of our manipulator is a 2 degree 
of freedom underactuated gripper. It is capable  
of executing pinch grasp and encompassing grasp 
based on the point of contact with the object.  
This year, we have modified the link lengths 
of the 5 bar mechanism so as to increase the  
opening range and to meet the force requirements 
more effectively. The position of the torsional  
springs used has been changed in such a way 
that the power required for gripping is minimal. 
We have made use of generative design to design 
the plate of the wheel due to which its weight has  
been reduced tremendously. This year, the string 
differential mechanism has been developed to  
stabilize the chassis during motion. It involves 
2 strings that are connected to the shafts of the  
rocker bogie on the either side of chassis using 
pulleys. Using the strings we have been able  
to drastically reduce the play that has been 
associated with the bar differential earlier.  
For the traversal mechanism we have continued 
using rocker bogie as we have been able to gain  
optimal results using it. The lengths of the 
rocker and the bogie have been optimized using  
Matlab to achieve the least vibration of the 
chassis. We have continued using carbon fibre  
for the rocker bogie mechanism because 
of its high strength to weight ratio.
The entire electronics system of our rover 
is housed in a modular electronics box  
which allows the easy servicing 
and maintenance of the electronics. 
The whole system is powered by a custom designed 
power distribution board which converts 24 V to  
12 and 5 V using DC buck to buck converters and 
provides power to various subsystems. The Jetson  
Nano forms the core of all the computations on 
our rover. Using rosserial, control signals to  
the motor drivers are sent via STM’s using I2C and 
CAN protocols for Drive and Manipulator subsystems  
respectively. The shift to CAN bus for the 
manipulator reduces noise in the communication.
  
The PCBs were newly designed and optimized 
this year to reduce the number of cables  
and wires present along with an LED based 
indication system for easy debugging. 
  
Our communication setup consists of a 
directional antenna at the base station  
and an omnidirectional antenna mounted on 
the rover operating at 2.4 GHz. The setup  
is capable of communicating over a distance of 
1 km, even in the absence of a line of sight. 
A readily accessible kill switch 
is mounted on the rover to stop the  
rover’s movement in case of an emergency.
 
 
The rover was monitored and debugged using a  
proprietary web-based GUI. The GUI is used 
to handle information about the operation.
This year we have developed robust and efficient 
algorithms to do the autonomous task in URC.  
We initially tested our algorithms 
on a simulated environment before  
testing it on Foresight. The robot then 
navigates to the designated waypoint,  
primarily using the map as a guide. However, 
it continues to sense its surroundings,  
even if its placement on the map is wrong or if 
it is in danger of colliding with an obstruction. 
We are using OpenCV aruco module for ARuCo 
detection, the robot localization package  
for implementing the extended Kalman 
filter for fusing ZED odometry and GPS.
We are using rtabmap for obstacle 
detection and navigation stack for  
path planning and building the 
map of the external environment.
We have completely redesigned 
our Science module for URC 2022.  
Our custom designed drill rotates at 
high speeds to scoop soil into a bucket.  
It is then dropped into the collector box which 
is rotated using a stepper motor to collect parts  
of the sample in each compartment. Bio signatures 
like lipids, proteins and sugars are tested for,  
using Sudan 3, Bradford's and Baye's tests. 
The reagents are filled in each compartment  
and closed with an acrylic lid to avoid spillage 
or contamination. Extinct and extant life are  
distinguished using the difference in the time 
taken by the lipids and proteins to decompose.  
The rover is equipped with various 
sensors that read temperature,  
humidity, luminosity, intensity of light rays and 
the percentage of various gases in the atmosphere. 
The microscope on-board identifies 
the colour and texture of the rocks.  
This is used to search a custom database 
for the origin and type of the rocks.
