We are Team Anveshak, a group of 
20+ passionate students from IIT Madras,
whose vision is to create a 
state of the art Mars rover.
After a strong performance
with Caesar in URC 2019,
we present this year's
contender - Dark Knight. 
Inspired by Caesar, the core subsystems have been 
retained with a healthy dose of optimisation and improvements. 
The mechanical module set out with the main goal 
of optimising to attain a higher degree of precision.
To achieve this, each mechanism was extensively 
analysed and its performance judged.
For traversing rugged terrain, the rocker-bogie 
system was redesigned from the ground up.
We modelled the system in MATLAB and 
designed it to perform well in bumpy terrain.
The rocker and bogie links are made of custom fabricated carbon fibre
for its strength to weight advantages.
The entire motor was shifted within the wheels for increased safety. 
To reduce the weight and maximum load, the bar differential
was redesigned to couple with the rocker-bogie at an angle.
In order to enhance modularity, 
the chassis framework has been implemented
to switch from Science to Manipulator mode and back.
Our 5 Degree of Freedom articulated manipulator is robust
and capable of performing a variety of tasks.
We have re-engineered several of the couplings
to reduce undesirable vibrations that make control difficult.
To further improve its capability,
we performed workspace calculations and increased the link lengths.
The end effector now reaches 38 cm below
and up to 1.1 metre above the mount point of the arm.
We have experimented with an adjustable worm 
gearbox to improve meshing of the gears. 
We have implemented an end-effector with 
both encompassing and pinching grips
to grasp a large variety of objects with ease.
It is an underactuated 5 bar mechanism with mechanical constraints
to activate pinching grip when a tip to object criteria is met.
The entire circuitry, powered by two 24V lipo batteries,
is housed in a modular electronics box.
The Jetson Nano forms the core of all the computations on the rover.
It interfaces with two networks of STM’s that 
communicate over an I2C and a CAN bus.
The shift to CAN bus for the manipulator 
reduced noise in the communication.
The PCB’s were custom designed to enable 
modularity in operations for easy assembly and debugging.
Four cameras are placed at optimum positions for different operations
like picking up, servicing and traversal.
Feed from any two selected cameras provide 
realtime view of the surroundings of the rover.
In addition, our ROS-based GUI allows us to easily setup,
monitor and debug the rover’s operation.
Our communication setup consists of a 
directional antenna at the base station
and an omnidirectional antenna mounted 
on the rover operating at 2.4 GHz.
The setup is capable of communicating over a distance of  1 km,
even in the absence of a line of sight.  
For the autonomous task, a control algorithm is implemented
to continuously align the rover towards the destination direction
based on the data from an IMU sensor and a GPS module.
The ROS wrapper of Alvar is used for the AR tag detection
and a search algorithm based on spiral 
navigation is in its testing phase.
A stereo camera which gives a 3D map of the 
surroundings is used for obstacle avoidance.
The science setup consists of two parts -
the onboard laboratory and the soil collection mechanism.
The soil collection module is a 2 degree of freedom open chain system
which digs into the soil using a scooper and deposits it to the lab
via combined motion of the scooper and a linear actuator.
To support our initial tests of proteins and lipids, 
tests for carbonates and ammonia 
were added to differentiate between the soil samples accurately.
Data from the temperature, pressure, humidity and luminosity sensors
help us determine if physical conditions are 
conducive for the existence of life.
The microscope onboard with adjustable 
focus is used to determine the physical attributes
such as colour and texture of the soil and rocks.
Cameras placed at different positions of the laboratory
provide a live feed of all the operations taking place.
