Team Inferno DTU is a group of 28 motivated undergraduate students
belonging to various engineering backgrounds
from Delhi Technological University, India.
Since our inception in 2013
our sole objective has been innovation.
We developed our University's first ever Mars Rover Prototype in 2019.
 
We take immense pride in introducing
our latest prototype- XLR8
Our team
is categorised into 6 sub- departments.
Mechanical, Electrical, Software, Embedded, Science and Corporate.
 
Categorisation of the team into various departments
enabled us to adapt the bottom-up
project management approach and help each department to work simultaneously while handling the issues encountered efficiently.
 
Our drive system consists of a 6-wheeled
drive with a modified rocker-bogie suspension
with 4 point hinge which provides better chassis stability
 
than the classical rocker-bogie suspension which we used in our previous iteration.
We used a differential bar
to connect the two rockers instead of bevel gear differential.
We have solved our previous shortcomings in the robotic arm
by replacing spur gears in the swivel base with self locking worm gear.
The arm
is designed so as to provide serviceability at extreme angles.
The light weight gripper assembly has been manufactured using in-house techniques.
We have used nylon and mild steel
spur gears in the gripper assembly for the motion of the wrist joints.
It uses a lead screw principle for the motion of the jaws
The jaws are designed considering the
various servicing tasks provided by the University Rover Challenge.
The gripper is capable of grabbing objects upto 12cm wide.
 
This year electrical system have been developed
considering both power impediments of the subsystem and
the requirements of the run time of the competition.
Two parallel connected 10000mAh lithium polymer batteries
have been used giving run time of 90 minutes.
various buck converters of
20A and 9A and battery eliminator circuits
have been used to provide different DC voltage levels.
Labelled XT60 connectors for all connections have been used
to ensure quick and fault-free assembly
of our electrical subsystem. A kill switch
that is clearly visible and accessible at all times
is also provided to completely cutoff the battery power
and shutdown the rover.
Modular electrical box has been manufactured using laser cutting
to enable easy access and provide robustness to the electrical connections.
 
 
XLR8's embedded system's have been designed to
maximise the efficiency and compactness.
The Jetson TX2 development kit is at the heart of the rover.
It is responsible for processing all the data
and commanding the microcontrollers. ARM based STM32 boards
STM32 boards and AVR based Arduino Mega boards
have been used in all the subsystems. Custom-made PCBs
have been manufactured
to provide easy connections between the microcontroller boards and
motor drivers and the sensors. Considering
the requirements and to achieve latency-free
high speed communication between the rover and base
station we have used the 5.8Ghz band.
In the robotic arm 5 DOF
inverse kinematics
has been implemented in top
down orientation for operator friendly interface for
accurate manipulation of objects in the surrounding.
The closed-loop system provides a precision
of 5mm along each axis.
The autonomous navigation
and traversal has been done by using ROS Navigation stack
together with our self made priority based algorithm.
An android based
application is used to receive the GPS and IMU data
from the Android mobile phone.
This data subscribed by the ROS Navigation Stack.
After reaching in the 3m radius of the given coordinates
our algorithm starts the object searching and detection.
When the AR Tag is detected the rover moves on
to the next given GPS coordinate.
Science Module is
primarily designed  adhering to all the decisive tasks
required to successfully detect the presence of extinct or extant
or no life existence. Our module is capable enough
to perform an in-situ analysis in order to detect the
presence or absence of bio markers.
Our module is coupled with a 20 cm mild steel drill connected
with a high torque motor to collect samples from different strata of soil. Our tests encompass
a spectrophotometer analysis of soil thermal imaging and
IR scanning to inspect soil structure and composition.
Chemical tests are conducted onboard
to examine biomolecules like carbon, ATP, DNA
and ammonia in order to deduce if elementary life is present.
Our rover is equipped with gas sensors like methane
CO2 and moisture sensors. The tests
are supported with pH analysis TDS analysis
and visual scanning of the rocks.
