We are the Pharaohs Rover team and this is our place , at which we share our knowledge.
and prepare for the university rover challenge 2020.
our team is split into three main groups;
.
Electrical group , Mechanical group , and
Science group .
 
 
Mechanical design .
Rover chassis is made of carbon fiber rods
assembled with screws
Allowing for easy assembly and disassembly
for shipping .
It has three different configuration sets
A double wishbone suspension configuration
Either six by six or four by four and an Ackermann
steering configuration giving us the ability
to switch between different configurations
according to the mission requirements .
The suspension system is calculated by doing
a mathematical model for the system to calculate
required stiffness and fixation of springs
Motion study is done on the new system to
test it's ability to traverse hard and inclined
terrain and carry the required load
We are currently in the manufacturing phase
and we're practicing on an old system to gain
driving experience and train new members .
A 6 degree of freedom robotic arm was designed
with a maximum payload of 5 kg
And a nearly spherical work-space
It consists of three cascaded two degree of
freedom joints, each implemented using a differential
bevel gear set
The first two joints are self- locked by worm
gear reduction stage at each motor .
To assure fail-safe operation while timing
belts are used for the last joint .
The structure were made of three millimeters
aluminum trusses to maximize the strength
to weight ratio.
The control system consists of multiple inner-connected
subsystems that achieve high integrity and reliability.
Rover main controller consist of two redundant modules
and supports multiple interfaces to
enhance reliability .
And provides 2 PID controllers on both linear
and angular velocity
We developed our custom dc smart drivers that
provide PID control on both angular velocity and position .
with feedback of angle,angular velocity , power,
temperature and estimated torque
We also designed our custom robotic arm controller
for easy manipulation
The rover is powered by 22 amp power Lipo batteries
which are monitored by the main
controller .
Emergency power switches were added for safety
.
The external communication is based on 2.4
Ghz wifi and 900 Mhz RF along with 5.8 Ghz
RFD video link
While internal communication consist of
Ethernet,serial,UART, rs485 and usb connections.
We implemented a video server which concatenate
multiple video transmissions into a single
video resulting in a fixed data rate .
It supports up to six camera with bit rate
of 5 M bits per second and allows for zooming without loosing quality.
We are currently testing the rover capabilities
to achieve the competition tasks
We have trained to minimize setup time
achieving a time of less than 3 minutes .
For the extreme retrieval task we have built a field to test our rover
on rough terrain
and steep inclines.
In order to test our arm we have built a panel
similar to the URC panel .
For the autonomous task localization is done
through sensor fusion between lidar ,gps , IMU
, and stereo vision .
Using extended kalman filter the rover is
then visualized on google maps using gps sensor
to ensure the rover maintains it's path
AR detection is implemented using convolutional
neural network .
The science box was designed with ability
of testing up to four different samples
It was designed specifically to fulfill the
no-spill policy
These samples are connected using our especially
designed shovel .
Providing more control for sample collection.
 
Chemicals indicators such ad Iodine , Biuret
and emulsion are used to detect the presence of life in a given sample.
In which they have a rapid response and are easily detected.
 
Machine learning specifically the convolutional
neural network is being used to identify different
types of rocks ,by comparing with the database
of rock samples
11 sensors are being used to measure changes
in different gases to see if there is any
sign of life in the surrounding environment.
