We are the Rose-Hulman Rover Robotics Team comprised of
undergraduate students with engineering backgrounds.
This year the team focused on furthering developments with our new
rover’s system, along with refining our subsystems from the previous rover.
To complete this, we have maintained a sub-team structure including
electrical, mechanical, software and science sub-teams that allow us to
approach the various challenges to rover development as we improve
our capabilities for each of the URC missions.
The rover is mainly controlled by an Nvidia Jetson Nano development board
with complementary control modules for distinct parts of the electrical system. 
The Arm is primarily its own system being controlled by a teensy 4.1
microcontroller which controls an off-the-shelf motor controller.
Additionally, there is a reintroduced science control unit,
which is newly put onto the rover.
The base station and rover both use M2 titanium bullet transceivers.
A high gain 2.4 GHz parabolic dish antenna is used for the base station to
communicate with the rover.
The rover uses an omnidirectional dipole antenna.
The only new component to the communication system is a passive POE
injector which provides power and data to the transceivers.
The battery system consists of four 3.2V Lithium-Ion Phosphate cells
in series, with a 72 Ah output.
The software architecture for this year’s rover leverages progress
from previous developments, especially for autonomous navigation.
We incorporated ROS with modularized subsystems for
Simultaneous Localization and Mapping, global positioning, and
navigation and planning.
We use an IMU, depth camera, and tracking camera to achieve effective
mapping and obstacle detection with an
appearance-based mapping algorithm.
Additionally, we extend the visual-inertial odometry algorithm to estimate
the rover’s real-time position and trajectory.
We continue to test the rover’s autonomous navigation capabilities in
outdoor environments along with improving the onboard and base station
processing of data for more efficient completion of the mission.   
This year, the main focus for target tracking has been to improve our
detection of tags via image classification.
We continue to use OpenCV with a new addition of PyTorch to detect tags
and then calculate the position of the tag relative to the rover.
The relative position is then converted into latitude and
longitude coordinates using data from our localization stack.
Finally, these coordinates are sent to the autonomous navigation system
as a waypoint objective.
All movement control is then handled
by the autonomous navigation system.
This year the mechanical sub-team has focused primarily on
the weight reduction and streamlining of the rover.
We are taking all the components from the old chassis and putting them
onto a newly fabricated chassis, and rocker-bogey system.
This new frame significantly reduced the overall volume and
weight of the rover, while still maintaining the required space
for all the sub-systems.
Additionally, it provides the same integrity
afforded by the previous chassis.
Our 3D printed wheels are composed of discs made of PETG
and rings made of TPU.
This ensures that the wheels would have enough rigidity
to maintain its shape while under pressure
while still being pliable enough to accommodate varying terrain. 
The 3D printed wheels are a vast improvement over our previous wheels,
which were unable to provide the capabilities we desired on sand.  
A majority of the work needed for
a minimally working arm was done last year,  
leaving our efforts currently focused on functional testing
and improvement of dexterity.
We now have a 6-DOF robotic arm, with an interchangeable end effector.
3D printed parts are constrained to structurally integral areas,
and we plan to have improved visual capabilities by mounting cameras
not only on the arm, but offset from the arm to improve depth perception.
The science mission this year has put a lot of effort into building a
mechanism to bring soil to the rover.
The science package will be attached to the front of the rover in place
of the arm for completing the science missions.
We have developed an auger screw to extract soil with the support of
an elevator mechanism allowing easy access to the ground as well
as the ability to come to the level with the rest of the science package.
The collected sample will then be transported into a test tube turntable
via slide-system inside the main science package,
where the sample will be analyzed.
To detect the presence of life, we will be using UV VIS Spectroscopy
to detect the presence of the amino acids Tryptophan and Tyrosine,
which have an absorption maximum of around 280 nanometers.
In addition, the science package will also be equipped with
multiple sensors and cameras to detect habitability and the surroundings.
