[Music] Hi, we're IITB Mars Rover Team, 
an undergraduate student team of over 40 
space enthusiasts dedicated to the
design and development of Mars Rover prototypes. Following our learnings from previous competitions, we are  
thrilled to unveil our 2023 rover. This year the 
team has aimed to go a notch above and beyond  
all our previous iterations. From introducing 
seven degrees of freedom in the robotic arm  
setting up a bi-channel communication Network 
and developing a completely independent onboard  
bio assembly subsystem, we have introduced 
upgrades across all subsystems. The current  
suspension is lightweight Rocker-Boogie design 
with a six-wheel drive. The suspension links are  
cut from square aluminum alloy pipes and provide 
a robust base for extreme terrain traversal in  
obstacle climbing. The suspension parameters have 
been optimized for transfer slope traversal of  
up to 40 degrees with a novel fourbar mechanism 
that attaches to the chassis externally. The drive  
uses skid steering for seamless operation and 
sharp corners and cramped spaces. Improving upon  
last year's iteration, this year we have incorporated chevron shaped grousers and light-weight chassis.
The wheel design has a custom built aluminum 
wheel hub with a rim made using sheet  
metal bending process. The wheel hub assembly is
based on a hex shaft motor that is coupled to the wheel
hub using a hex coupler. The spokes have been 
designed to increase the compliance of the wheels.  
After extensive research we have completely 
revamped the robotic arm, introducing a 7 degree  
of freedom design for better maneuverability. Linear 
actuators and worm gear drive has been used  
to reduce backlash, improve precision of the end 
effector and meet raw requirements to lift heavy  
weight objects up to 5 kgs. The end effector uses 
a jaw mechanism designed to enhance load bearing  
and gripping of heavy objects having various 
shapes and sizes. A linear actuator is used for  
precise control of the wrist improving on the 
previous iteration of the arm. Elbow rotation  
has been added to create a spherical workspace 
for the end effector. To solve the problem of  
wire wind up in the end effector, we have added a 
slip ring on the gripper for continuous rotation.  
For the current version we completely redesigned 
the bio-assembly system which included modifying  
the test and adding separate soil collection 
mechanism. Our custom soil collection arm has  
three degrees of freedom with a gripper built to 
carefully collect soil samples. The arm is mounted  
with temperature humidity and methane sensors. 
Additionally pH of the soil is tested post  
collection. The soil sample is then transported 
to one of the test modules. The prototype shown  
has two test modules and one site for collection 
of an uncontaminated sample for further analysis,  
which will be extended to accommodate two more 
test modules. Each of the four individual modules  
is capable of testing for pH, protein, existence 
of life and classification of life as extinct or  
extant. We have trained a Convolutional Neural 
Network to identify and classify rock samples.  
A custom Raman spectrometer with a turntable 
Mount holding the different samples finalizes  
the mineral present. The hardware subsystem 
has focused on a compact and efficient design  
of rover mobility, biosystem operation and 
easy debugging. Our main onboard processor is  
the Intel NUC supported by an RPI 4B Plus for 
additional rover controls. All onboard electronics  
sit in a neatly housed fully detachable Elec Box 
coupled to the Rover with aviation grade  
connectors. The entire rover runs on a 12 Volt 
rail, down converted for specific components  
powered by a Lithium-Ion battery pack via a 
kill switch. To reduce communication blackouts,  
we have implemented a dual band communication 
system using a Ruckus p300 and Rocket M2 module.  
Ongoing field trials have shown promising 
results with reliable non-LOS communication  
of over 1 kilometer. To ease rover operation, 
we have implemented a Django based web GUI  
for consolidated rover controls and visual 
feedback. A fully mobile pre-configured base  
station enables a quick setup time of less than 
10 minutes and reduces chances of manual errors.
After winning Excellence award in Autonomous 
Operation into two consecutive International Rover  
Challenges, this year's autonomous subsystem 
focuses on improving reliability and moving  
towards the level four autonomy. For effective 
traversal, rover utilizes GPS data provided  
by sensors on an Android device using a custom 
built APK. With use of an onboard LIDAR sensor  
and Intel Realsense stereo camera an occupancy 
grid is created using RTABMap which helps in  
obstacle avoidance and path planning. The rover 
obtains IMU data from the app for pose estimation  
and feedback from the wheels for closed loop 
velocity control which helps the rover to pass  
through a gate and a single post. To search 
for the Aruco markers we have implemented 
quad-spinning strategy. The rover recursively performs 
360 degree rotations to search for AR tags on the  
sides of a square. To detect AR tags we use OpenCV 
along with querying point cloud data to obtain its  
position. We have extensively tested robot autonomy 
on Gazebo simulations and multiple on-field trials.
We have spent months preparing for the 
competition and in the upcoming days  
we will be performing extensive field trials 
in the competition-simulated environment and  
hence are confident of a good show in URC' 23. 
This sums up our video submission for URC' 23.
