Hi! We are team R3 from Ryerson 
University in Toronto, Canada.  
Welcome to our 2022 System Acceptance Review. Our 
diverse team of engineering, arts, business and  
architecture students have been working diligently 
to develop our Mars rover. Despite the challenges  
faced by COVID-19, we have successfully recruited 
and trained new members, and continued our work  
all in a virtual environment. Our sheet metal 
chassis is designed to be strong and durable  
while being optimized for weight. For cooling, the 
chassis has large ventilation openings and can be  
covered with a heat reflective mylar composite 
top. The wheels use BLDC motors with closed-loop  
drivers to improve overall speed control. This 
improves both precise and large scale movements.  
New motor mounts were also made to 
reduce weight while maintaining strength.  
Our wheel design is optimized for shock absorption 
and stability. The PETG hub has a slight flex and  
the polyurethane treads are able to conform to 
the terrain for a smoother ride. In addition, our  
double-lambda-rocker-bogey suspension ensures that 
the rover can traverse over any kind of terrain,  
smooth or rough. The frame is manufactured from 
carbon fiber tubing and aluminum linkages which  
provide a high strength to weight ratio. To 
fit the new 1.2-meter cubed deployment size  
requirement, the rover's primary z-axis 
was shortened. To compensate for this,  
the secondary tube was lengthened, allowing the 
end effector heights to be adjusted between tasks.  
There are two end effectors on the rover; a rotary 
tool on a linear rail and a two clawed gripper.  
Each specializes in tasks such as interacting 
with buttons, switches, drawers or payloads.
A standard gamepad controller is used 
for intuitive control of the rover  
for both drive and arm manipulation. In 
addition, the rover utilizes numerous  
cameras and sensors which are streamed to 
the driver via 900 MHz and 2.4 GHz bands.  
This information is displayed on the GUI which 
can stream multiple camera feeds simultaneously,  
along with rover speed and the compass 
bearing to aid the driver in navigation.  
For the autonomous navigation task, a GPS 
is used in conjunction with the compass  
to create a vector between the rover's current 
position and the desired destination. As the rover  
traverses towards a post, the PID controller is 
used to perform corrections when deviations occur.  
In addition, our OpenCV-based image detection 
algorithm is used to quickly detect the AR Tags  
when the post is within range. An LCD display 
is used to monitor aspects of the rover such  
as current voltage values and mode of the rover 
including driver mode or autonomous navigation.  
The rover has also been outfitted with an e-stop 
button which can be used in case control is lost.  
The hardware team's focus was redesigning 
the control system to be modular and  
increase troubleshooting efficiency. The new power 
distribution board was designed from the ground up  
with custom buck and boost converters to improve 
the overall power consumption of the rover,  
including over-current and voltage 
protection for all its components.  
These converters are arranged to 
be easily interchanged or replaced.  
For soil analysis, a single life detection 
protocol is used to detect the presence of DNA,  
proteins and lipids. Soil is collected using 
an auger and transferred to test tubes housed  
in an indexable carousel where they are then 
centrifuged. Cross-contamination prevention  
was a key design focus, so each specimen has a 
separate set of augers, test tubes and syringes.  
A hematoxylin solution is used to detect 
DNA, staining purple blue, and is analyzed  
using a spectrophotometer probe at 450 nm. A 
biuret reagent is used for detecting proteins,  
staining mauve, and a nile blue solution is 
used for detecting lipids, staining blue.  
Both are analyzed with the probe at 540 nm. The 
presence of these macromolecules, or lack thereof,  
indicates whether life, accident life, or no 
life is present. Since our process has been  
proven successful in a lab environment, a similar 
spectrophotometer is being implemented on rover.  
Environmental conditions are measured using an 
anemometer and a DHT22 temperature and humidity  
sensor. For geological analysis, a camera 
and microscope are used to observe rock and  
fossil specimens, which are then identified 
by comparison with a searchable database.  
We believe our rover is ready to compete 
in URC 2022 and would like to thank our  
sponsors for all of their support and our 
team members for all of their hard work.
you
