Hi, we are Toronto MetRobotics formerly 
known as R3. After competing in the  
University Rover Challenge in 2022, we 
have taken the valuable lessons learned  
to redesign and optimize our Rover 
to perform at its best in URC 2023.
This year our mechanical team focused on 
lightening the overall weight of our Rover  
to meet competition requirements. Our wheels 
consist of lighter 3D-printed PETG rims with  
increased impact resistance and are in-house 
molded polyurethane tires provide additional  
traction and shock absorption for 
navigating over uneven terrain.  
Our drivetrain has been enhanced with durable 
aluminum motor mounts and a 25:1 planetary  
gearbox that offers more torque. The chassis was 
redesigned and restructured to maximize space  
and modularity. Our double lambda rocker bogie 
suspension now also features motor driver mounts.  
A five degree of freedom arm was implemented to 
offer a wider range of motion and articulation.  
Our new claw design allows us to complete all 
equipment servicing tasks such as opening drawers  
and pressing buttons with an integrated hex key 
pointer. Additionally, higher gear reduction and  
non-back drivable joints were incorporated to 
provide position control and reduce backlash.
Our Rover communicates with the base station 
via 2.4 GHz frequency band. Additionally,  
a standard Gamepad controller is used to control 
both the drivetrain and arm manipulation. Critical  
improvements have been made to our control system 
to better assist the operator in completing  
competition tasks. Firstly, an improved PID 
controller was developed to ensure better  
motor stabilization and reliability. A new inverse 
kinematics-based software and firmware solution  
has been developed for the new arm, ensuring 
intuitive, accurate, and reliable control.  
This year we have simplified the camera systems 
to allow the operator to smoothly connect to and  
interact with the onboard camera systems through 
a GUI. For the autonomous navigation mission,  
the ROS2 framework has been used to ensure 
reliable communication between our Rover  
and the base station. Our onboard GNSS-Aided 
Internal Navigation system allows the Rover  
to traverse towards desired coordinates 
quickly and within the 2-meter geofence  
tolerance using custom navigational 
algorithms. Our Rover then performs  
a tailored search pattern and OpenCV is used 
to detect AR tags and perform localization.
Our electrical system is being redeveloped to 
improve the robustness and efficiency of a Rover.  
Off-the-shelf Lithium Polymer batteries will 
be replaced with custom lithium-ion battery  
packs which are currently in development. Safety 
has been our top priority due to the volatile  
nature of these batteries. We have implemented an 
advanced battery management system that supports  
precise cell balancing as well as over-temperature 
protection and enable and disabling mechanism for  
various failure modes. 18650s were used to test 
their power distribution system and a 30 cell  
pack of 21700s will be implemented to double 
our energy capacity for competition this year.  
Multi-purpose motherboards were designed with 
custom buck converters to handle high current  
draws for the motors. The science mission will 
be approached from two perspectives. Firstly,  
soil samples will be tested for the presence 
of lipids through our life detection protocol  
and secondly, we will determine whether the soil 
has the potential to support life, through the  
detection of key ions and soil metrics.
Our improved soil collection system,  
deposits the sample into a two-way vibratory 
splitter which allocates half the sample to  
the lipid test and half to the ion test. After 
agitation, a series of four different IM probes  
will be used to detect the concentrations of 
hydrogen, calcium, potassium, and ammonium in  
each sample. Simultaneously, the other half 
of the soil sample is mixed with detergents,  
a peristaltic pump system then transfers a precise 
amount of the liquid into a Nile blue solution to  
determine the presence of lipids by standing red 
or purple. Finally, the color of the solution is  
analyzed using an onboard spectrophotometer. For 
geological analysis, a robust, high definition  
camera is used to observe key metrics such as 
striation, color, and coarseness. The potential  
specimen is then identified using our searchable 
database. Our team is committed to continually  
testing our new Rover systems in preparation 
for competition, and we are grateful for the  
immense support from all of our sponsors. Thank 
you for watching our system acceptance review!
