Greetings from Team Ares Robotics, Our team 
comprises 80 students from various engineering  
backgrounds. Despite the challenge caused by 
COVID 19, we have completely redesigned our  
previous rover and are proud to present Morpheus. 
The mechanical team focus to develop a modular lightweight rover with increased robustness and 
strength.   
Morpheus is incorporated with a platform frame chassis made up of aluminum 6063 t60 
gradient square channels to optimize the weight  
of the rover without compromising on strength. 
This year we have implemented a four-wheel customized double rocker suspension system 
that provides optimal stability and extreme  
traversal capabilities ensuring maximum contact 
between the wheel and the ground all the time.  
A bar differential mechanism connects the two 
lockers which provide ground confirmability,  
optimal stability, and high mobility allowing 
Morpheus to climb obstacles up to 0.5 meters  
and descend at each of 1 meter.  
The structural and mobility system has been tested through multiple levels with different factors ensuring 
high strength with extreme traversal capability  
and impact endurance. The 5 degrees of freedom 
articulated manipulator fabricated using laser cut  
aluminum linkages features two actuator and brand 
DC motors with encoders implemented with inverse  
kinematics providing high dexterity and can lift 
a payload up to 6 kg. The end effector comprises a  
spur gear mechanism and a lead screw-based gripper 
for patch roll and gripping action that provides  
precision and versatility. Generative design and 
topology optimization has been used to design  
the glove water manipulator. A bomb gear drive 
provides 360-degree rotation to the robotic arm.  
We have taken a modular approach by dividing our 
electronic system into six subsystems placed into  
separate boxes allowing for easier debugging. 
A high-performance CPU that is Jetson Xavier is  
used in order to drive all the subsystems. The 
connecting ports are integrated with the boxes  
for easier connections and faster assembly. This 
year we've implemented a dual battery setup. The  
26-volt lithium-ion battery powers our propulsion 
motors,   actuators and pumps while all the sensors,  
communication systems, and other embedded 
systems are run on the 16-volt battery.  
The power connectors are made thick to avoid 
any heating damage. We used a 5.8 gigahertz  
tp-link CPE along with a 12 DBI omnidirectional 
antenna. It allows reliable communication up to  
500 meters and its huge bandwidth allows for easy 
video streaming and communication. A V-disparity  
map-based approach is used to estimate the ground 
plane. Firstly, a point cloud is generated,  
and then using the PCL library the surface 
normal and ground plane estimation is done.  
We get the obstacles by subtracting the ground 
plane from the original disparity map, then  
the obstacle coordinates are triangulated in a 3d 
point cloud and rather visualize using OpenGL. We  
use the A-Star algorithm for path planning which 
uses rover state and dynamic constraints as well  
we have designed Arduino-driven PCBs which receive 
data from the sensors. An ITC expander and driver  
PCBs were also designed to control pumps, walls, and 
stepper motors. The science up system is involved  
with the detection of the extinct, extent, and 
no life. To study the science of life, we perform  
four different life analyzing tests- Sakaguchi 
test, Sudan 4 test, Schiff's test, Glucose  
and protein strip test. The sign sampling system 
comprises an auger-based drill for loosening the  
soil, vacuum for its transportation and a blender 
for slurry formation. Thereafter the chemical  
tests are performed in the test tube holder which 
will be analyzed with the help of a color sensor.  
We have created different data sets of soil 
and mineral samples and trained CNN models  
to achieve the task of item extraction 
for rock textures and biosignatures.  
The rover is also equipped with a digital 
microscope which will provide the images  
to their models. We have integrated several 
sensors such as PH, methane, ammonia, humidity,  
moisture, temperature, luminosity, speed to 
study the subsurface and atmospheric properties  
as these factors play a critical role in 
determining planetary habitability.   
We have implemented the graphical user interface using 
Electron JS for smoother over control and is  
being rendered as a local software application 
required for communication with the rover. It  
displays important information like motor 
speeds, camera feeds, and sensor data and  
provides the option to toggle the autopilot in 
case manual control is required. 
The led array lights up to blue indicating manual operation 
of the rover. A physical relay-based kill switch  
and an Arduino-based e-switch have been designed 
for safe operation when triggered the turn-off  
propulsion system however, the communication 
system still remains operational. A custom PCB  
with the help of a Raspberry Pi Pico drives the 
motors of the robotic arm. All motor drivers were  
carefully chosen on the basis of the current load 
requirement. For the autonomous navigation task,  
we used a stereo IR-based depth module 
implemented visual-inertial audiometry  
using continuous slam with depth cameras taking 
the starting point of the rover as the origin.  
An extended Kalman filter framework is used to 
fuse the continuous data consisting of encoder  
feedback and from the IMU to get the local state 
of the rover. For post and gate detection, we use  
the augmented reality library ARUCO which gives 
us the ability to detect as well as localize the  
markers in the global path when detected so that 
the path planning algorithm can generate commands accordingly.
The business department's role is 
to increase public outreach, manage sponsorship  
and organize events. We at ARES robotics would like 
to thank URC for this opportunity. Thank you.
