Welcome to Almost Heaven, West Virginia.
We are Mountaineer robotics, a
multidisciplinary team of undergraduates
at West Virginia University. We are
excited to unveil our 2020 University
Rover challenge entry, MATEO - Mountaineer
Autonomous Traversal and Environmental
Operations. With our past Rovers as
learning experiences, many of our design
choices this year aim to minimize the
number of moving parts onboard the rover. MATEO is built with a rigid aluminum
chassis and trapezoidal shell. Each of
MATEO's 49 centimeter tires is driven by
a brushed DC motor. The tires are affixed
directly to their motors by steel
transmission shafts, giving MATEO an
excellent skid steering system. For power
MATEO uses three 40 volt batteries as well as two 12-volt batteries. Power to the
entire system can be stopped at once by
depressing the emergency stop button.
Rover communications run on both 2.4
gigahertz and 900 megahertz channels. A
network is automatically configured when
all four radios are powered by 24 volt
power over Ethernet. At the base station
a custom user interface allows operators
to visualize the collected data in
charts and graphs as well as switch
between camera streams all from up to
one kilometer away. For the equipment
servicing mission we have constructed a
1 meter lift at high precision arm.
Controlled by a joystick and inverse
kinematics, this arm provides operators
with six degrees of freedom. This arm's
end effector is a lead screw actuated
four-bar gripper. The end effector
complies around cylindrical objects, and
its tips are coated in polyurethane to
increase gripping force.
In addition, a hook is attached to the
base of the arm for lifting objects up
to five kilograms. For the science
mission we are reusing the lift system
from our equipment servicing arm. The
vertical lift deploys a linear actuated
scoop into the soil, which is collected
in a rotating carousel beneath the rover.
The soil is first observed through a
microscope then immediately tested for
temperature and moisture to determine if
simple organisms could survive. The
samples pH level is also tested, as pH is
a strong indicator of soil habitability.
Acetic acid is then added to the sample
which is monitored by a real-time CO2
sensor. If carbonates are present in the
sample the base station will observe a
sharp increase in carbon dioxide
emissions, indicating that neutral to
alkaline water favorable to life was
present. For large rocks, inspection under
webcam and microscope could show colors, layers and other features that could
help identify minerals present in the
sample.
If gypsum or halite is found, UV light
may reveal the presence of organic
materials within the mineral. For the
extreme retrieval mission MATEO's lift
system is swapped for a three degree of
freedom arm. Controlled by two linear
actuators and a DC worm motor, this arm
is capable of reaching fifteen
centimeters below and thirty centimeters
in front of the chassis.
This arm's end-effector is designed to
maintain grip strength while traversing
rugged terrain, and the rover's low
center of gravity helps our main wheels
down on steep inclines.
MATEO is programmed primarily with C++
and Python, running on Ubuntu in ROS.
Individual services such as sensors and
cameras run on their own Ross nodes
During the autonomy mission, an operator inputs a GPS coordinate and its
uncertainty into the base station
computer. From there MATEO is controlled
by a state machine. MATEO begins by
driving toward the given coordinate,
entering obstacle avoidance mode if
triggered by LiDAR point cloud data. An
EKF helps the rover maintain its heading
even on rugged terrain. MATEO is
outfitted with four wide-angle cameras,
each of which can reliably detect AR
tags up to 10 meters away. If the rover
arrives at a GPS coordinate without
detecting a marker, it uses a
Gaussian function to generate a search
path over the surrounding area.
Mountaineer robotics is excited to
unveil the progress we've made on MATEO
and we hope country roads take us home to the Mars desert Research Station in May.
Thank you for your consideration
