Hi, we are Yıldız Rover Team and welcome to 
Yıldız Technical University Istanbul, Turkiye.
for University Rover Challange 2023 we excited to represent you our second generation rover Flame.
The rover's chassis is made of lightweight 
and durable T-slot aluminum profile that  
facilitates easy modifications between missions. 
The differential bar used in the rocker suspension system is constructed of carbon fiber profiles to ensure high bending strength and rigidity for the vehicle. 
The rover is capable of climbing up to 45 degrees of the slope 
by dint of brushed DC motors with 20 Nm torque and airless TPU tires with wave-shaped patterns.
This drive system allows the rover conquer challenging terrain conditions.   
A 41600 mAH 6S12P Li-ion battery pack has been preferred to provide the voltages of all equipment in Rover's E-Box safely and efficiently. 
To protect this battery our team also designed Battery Management Board.
External communication between the rover and the control station based on 5.8 GHz access points and an omnidirectional antenna with Lora Communication Module up to two kilometer range
At the same time communication between electronic devices is 
provided by CAN communication protocol 
On the STM32 series microcontroller, we use Motor Driver, Encoder, Power Distribution, BMS, and Robotic arm in the rovers' electronic system.
In addition, we designed Science PCBs that we used in this system.
Our team designed the CAN Bus motor driver that allows us to control motors with PID.
The Power Distribution Board converts 24V to 3, 5, or 12 volts via the high efficiency  required for Rover’s electronic components. 
Easily accessible emergency stop button placed on the Rover that will shut it down under considering emergency scenarios.
Zed2 Stereo camera utilized for ARuco marker) detection via Pyzed library. 
To achieve the task, during the scanning environment Rover detects and determines the distance to the ARuco marker, then approaches markers and passes through the gates. In case that ARuco marker is located at such a long distance that ZED2 is not able
to detect it the Rover attempts to turn in a 
circle to get closer to the marker to increase the chance of detection  
Our custom-designed mission planner uses various sensors such as IMU, 
LIDAR, RTK GNNS, and WHEEL ENCODERS to allocate the Rover in the map. 
Also, the mission planner connects to google maps API and gets the newest map. EKF is implemented into the mission planner to fuse all movement data from the rover.  
into the mission planner to fuse all movement 
data from the Rover we designed a very important  
We designed RL based autonomous driving software, which includes a deep learning
that's made by custom RND process this algorithm 
includes a training environment that can simulate  
real-life problems of the Rover thanks to all 
this work less memory usage and lower response  
times can be obtained than others such as move 
base from ready-mates and alternative packages  
this year six degrees of freedom robotic arm is 
composed of  T-slot aluminum and 3D printed PLA 
component. By dint of linear actuators, stepper motors, and magnetic encoders; the robotic arm operates
via High precision and is capable of handling 
a payload of up to 5 kilograms 
A 2 finger adaptive gripper is designed to achieve a wide 
range of gripping capabilities the gripper can  
provide both parallel and rounded grip and its 
gripping surfaces are covered with rubber to  
increase the friction coefficients furthermore 
the gripper's fingers can be replaced with spoon  
shaped ones to collect samples during the science 
Mission the inverse kinematic equations provide  
Target angle values for a given Target position 
therewithal current angle values are obtained  
from high sensitivity magnetic encoders as5600 
using PID algorithms targets and current angle  
values are compared and then the robotic arm 
is controlled we designed our live detection  
mechanism with the motivation of exploring, extinct, 
extant and no life by searching for  
organic compounds and biochemical activities 
in rock and soil samples the gripper takes the  
soil sample from the surface and places it into the 
science mechanism which is transferred to four cuvettes  
and tubes with the robotic arm the peristaltic
pump that we produced pours water into those  
cuvettes and tubes soil sensor NPK determines 
the presence of nitrogen phosphate and potassium  
while pH sensor measures the pH for habitability 
by interacting with soil samples in the science  
mechanism after our revolver system mixes the soil 
with distilled water the chemical tests liquids
from the syringe system will be transferred we 
use three biochemical tests to analyze the soil  
samples By Bradford Test test we search for proteins and 
with Sudan III test as we investigate the lipids  
in soil we also use the Schiff test to determine 
if the soil has aldehydes the custom made with  
spectrophotometer detects compounds in the soil 
such as chlorophyll and carotenoids among the  
purpose of life detection our size mechanism have 
components the examine suitability of environment  
for living organisims the sensors detect carbon 
monoxide ammonia hydrogen nitrogen dioxide  
carbon dioxide methane temperature humidity and 
pressure levels Vis/Near Infrared Reflectance Spectrometer that we also made; 
identifies biominerals rocks analyzes a wide 
range of inorganic and organic compounds we  
interpret the color tones and sediment 
shapes on the rocks and soil surface  
using our sedimentology archive the interface we 
developed at Munsel Color Chart we integrate  
a digital microscope into our science mechanism 
to trace forces for investigating Extinction
